OceanofPDF.com
Dedication
For Peter
OceanofPDF.com
C
o
n
t
e
n
t
s
Cover Title Page
Dedication
Prologue
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Chapter 7
Chapter 8
Chapter 9
Chapter 10
Chapter 1
1
Chapter 12
Chapter 13
Chapter 14
Chapter 15
Chapter 16
Chapter 17
Chapter 18
Chapter 19
Chapter 20
Chapter 21
Chapter 22
Chapter 23
Chapter 24
Chapter 25
Chapter 26
Chapter 27
Chapter 28
Chapter 29
Chapter 30
Chapter 31
Chapter 32
Chapter 33
Chapter 34
Chapter 35
Chapter 36
Chapter 37
Chapter 38
Chapter 39
Chapter 40
Chapter 41
Chapter 42
Chapter 43
Chapter 44
Chapter 45
Chapter 46
Chapter 47
Chapter 48
Chapter 49
Chapter 50
Chapter 51
Chapter 52
Chapter 53
Chapter 54
Chapter 55
Chapter 56
Chapter 57
Chapter 58
Chapter 59
Chapter 60
Chapter 61
Chapter 62
Chapter 63
Chapter 64
Chapter 65
Chapter 66
Chapter 67
Chapter 68
Chapter 69
Chapter 70
Chapter 71
Chapter 72
Chapter 73
Chapter 74
Chapter 75
Chapter 76
Chapter 77
Chapter 78
Chapter 79
Chapter 80
Chapter 81
Chapter 82
Chapter 83
Chapter 84
Chapter 85
Chapter 86
Chapter 87
Chapter 88
Chapter 89
Chapter 90
Chapter 91
Chapter 92
Chapter 93
Chapter 94
Chapter 95
Chapter 96
Chapter 97
Acknowledgments
An Excerpt from HOUR OF THE ASSASSIN
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
About the Author
Praise
Also by Matthew Quirk
Copyright
About the Publisher
OceanofPDF.com
Prologue
Peter Sutherland stalked through the trees wearing a navy suit, white shirt,
and black oxfords polished to a high gloss. Everything about him was FBI
standard, the code he had followed so carefully for so long. A perfect
square.
The ax in his hand was new, though, as was the borrowed pistol on his
hip with no serial number.
Bruises and cuts covered the side of his throat. He hadn’t slept in
twenty-four hours.
The ax was a beauty, its steel blade gleaming like a razor at the end of
thirty-six inches of American ash.
He walked toward the red brick mansion, studying it. Peter knew how to
get in and out of a home without leaving a trace. That was his job.
Surveillance. Tracking. Seeing without being seen.
But the time for hiding was over. He moved across the soft grass of the
lawn, toward the back of the house.
The day was cool, but his cheeks were flushed. His heartbeat washed in
his ears like crashing surf. He welcomed it, welcomed the adrenaline
flooding down his spine as he took the steps of the rear deck two at a time
to the door.
The house surely had an alarm system, but he didn’t care. Let them
come. All of them. Police. Secret Service. The cold assassins masquerading
as intelligence officers.
Peter had always been so careful about the rules. He had to be. His
father had betrayed his country. Suspicion had trailed Peter for most of his
life. No matter how faultless he was, he couldn’t escape it, and now they
had branded him as a traitor, too.
He didn’t break his stride as he tilted his wrist down and let the ax slip
through his fingers to its full length, grabbing it at the end of the handle. He
closed his left hand on the wood grain just above his right and swung the
tool back, over his head, the four-pound blade arcing until it nearly touched
his spine. He whipped it forward with every muscle in his body.
Fourteen years of anger repressed, fourteen years of playing by their
hypocrite rules, all the fury of watching the helpless die at the hands of the
powerful—he put it all into that blow. Enough with the Boy Scout shit.
The blade hissed through the air, hit the door near its edge, and blew it
apart like a breaching charge. The lock and handle splintered out.
He kicked the door open. A camera was straight ahead.
Perfect. He wanted them to see. Raise the alarm at the White House.
He marched upstairs looking for the safe.
The traitors had murdered innocents and waged war against their own
country, a quiet coup. Soon they would have control. Soon more would die
if he didn’t make his stand. It might cost him his life. He knew that.
He knew he might have to kill someone here. That would have been
unthinkable just a day before, but he had never known treachery like this,
never felt anger like this. He didn’t know who he was anymore, but he
knew what he needed to do. This ended only one way. Looking down the
barrel of a gun.
OceanofPDF.com
1
Six Days Earlier
PETER’S OXFORDS STOOD outside the closet door. A freshly pressed
shirt hung on the knob along with a navy suit. His alarm chirped. It was five
P.M.
He rolled out of bed and opened the shades, then brought the sheet and
comforter back up, and tucked them in with neat corners.
The sun dipped low in the sky and disappeared behind the trees and
apartment buildings near the National Cathedral.
Night was coming and his day was just getting started. He worked for
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and through a series of events he still
couldn’t quite fathom, he had been detailed to the White House. He staffed
a night action desk in the Situation Room, a twelve-hour shift from seven
P.M. to seven A.M.
His job, in brief, was to stand by an emergency line all night every
night, waiting for a call that might never come.
The bus took him down to Lafayette Square, and he headed south as the
setting sun painted the White House red.
He crossed to G Street and ducked into Tonic, a bar in Foggy Bottom.
He scanned the room for a colleague of his from the West Wing, Brian, who
had told him to come by.
Walking along the back wall of the bar gave him a clear view of the
entire space. He caught himself studying the other patrons, noting height
and weight, distinguishing characteristics and unusual behavior, silently
recording it all.
He could never turn off the old habits. For years watching had been his
job. He started out in the FBI as a surveillance specialist, known within the
bureau as a G.
He slipped along the edge of the crowd. Peter stood out at six six and a
lean two hundred and twenty pounds, but he liked to avoid attention and
knew how to get around without drawing too much notice.
He caught the eye of Brian, who waved him over. “You want a beer?”
“Thanks,” Peter said. “But I’m heading in. I wanted to stop by for a
bit.”
“You’re still on nights?”
Peter pretended to sleep on his feet, then opened his eyes, startled.
“Sorry, what?”
Brian laughed, then took a sip. His suit was well-cut, modish, too
expensive for his salary. He was an easygoing Connecticut prep who
worked days in the office of the national security advisor. They had played
basketball together a handful of times. He had a habit of attaching the name
of a person he had just met to the end of each sentence—“And where did
you go to school, Peter?”—that Peter took as a sign of an inveterate
networker, filing names away in his mental Rolodex.
Peter recognized the man next to Brian from a barbecue that summer.
He worked in the director’s office.
“Hey, Theo,” Peter said and shook his hand.
“Go ahead,” Brian said to Theo, who cast his eyes around the room
warily.
“What’s up?” Peter asked.
“Theo saw the promotion and transfer lists.”
It was a favorite topic of gossip among the bureau drones.
“Do you want to know if you’re getting one?” Brian asked Peter,
grinning.
“Of course,” Peter said, and as Theo leaned in, Peter held up his hand.
“But don’t tell me.”
“What?”
“I’ll find out soon.”
“You don’t want to know?”
“It’s cool. I’ll wait.”
Theo straightened up, and the pleasant air of shared secrets disappeared.
“It’s not a big deal,” Theo said, defensive now. And it wasn’t. Bosses
would often drop hints, and most of the raises and promotions were
telegraphed well in advance.
“I’m not trying to give you a hard time,” Peter said. “It’s fine. But I
don’t want to know.”
“You’re making me out like some kind of sneak? You?”
Peter was careful about even the slightest hint of impropriety. People
had been watching him, too, for much of his life, looking for the slightest
breach. Maybe that’s why surveillance and countersurveillance came so
naturally.
He’d always hewed carefully to those rules, hoping they might let him
escape the taint of his father’s crimes, might save him from who he was.
“No,” Peter said calmly. “But leave me out of it.”
Theo let out a nasty laugh. “You play it so straight, but everybody
knows . . .” He looked away.
“Knows what?” Peter asked.
Theo scanned the room to his left as if he were looking for someone
better to talk to. He muttered something about dad and spy.
Peter stepped closer and looked Theo in the eye.
“Is there something you would like to say?”
Theo puffed up and stared back in silence for a moment. The others
went quiet.
“I don’t mind, really. I’ve heard it all,” Peter went on. He’d been
dealing with this garbage his whole life. You just had to face it down, show
that you’re your own man, with nothing to hide.
A pleasant rush coursed through Peter’s body, the kind he used to feel
before a big game, or when a surveillance target tried to lose him. He’d
been cooped up at a desk for months. He longed for action.
He ran his thumbnail along the side of his middle finger and then
pressed it in, hard, at the knuckle. The stab of pain braced him. It was an
old habit, a way to break himself out of the moment. Easy, Sutherland.
Easy. He took two deep breaths and then smiled.
That unnerved Theo, who shook his head and stepped away without
another word.
Brian grimaced at Peter. “Sorry about that.”
“Don’t worry about it,” Peter said, as the conversations around them
picked back up. “I should get going anyway.”
“You sure you don’t want anything? Cup of coffee?”
“I’m good. Thanks.”
Peter turned toward the door, and Brian raised his glass. “An honest
man in Washington.”
“I know.” Peter smiled. “I’m screwed.”
OceanofPDF.com
2
THAT NIGHT IN the Situation Room started like any other. Peter stepped
into the West Wing and a Secret Service officer checked his badge for
access.
“How you shooting these days, Bear?” Peter’s nickname from college
ball.
“A little rusty,” Peter said. “I need to get out there more.”
“They still have you in that basement?”
“Yes, sir.”
He let out a chuckle. The guard seemed to find the plight of a big man
in a small room a source of endless humor. “What are those ceilings down
there? Eight feet? Seven?”
“Lower every night,” Peter said, gave the desk a friendly tap, and
started down the corridor.
Peter’s boss, James Hawkins, marched past, reading something on his
phone. A senior advisor and veteran of the FBI’s national security division,
he served as the president’s in-house man on counterintelligence and
terrorism. He seemed to catch sight of Peter, though his only response was a
slight knitting of his brows.
Hawkins was big, built like a laborer, balding with black hair cut close
to his skull and a trim beard.
Now that Peter was in the White House, so close to the president, he
noticed people watching him more carefully than ever, saw the concern
flash across their faces when they figured out who he was.
Hawkins had known his father before the scandal, and it didn’t help that
Peter bore such a strong physical resemblance to his dad.
Hawkins—divorced, lapsed Catholic, workaholic—typically moved
through the building like a black cloud. He greeted subordinates, if he
greeted them at all, with a lift of the head and a faint “hey” that sounded
like the noise he would make if he were moving an injured limb. Maybe it
was the toll from a lifetime of classified work, of carrying too many secrets,
but he seemed especially cold toward Peter.
There were times when the suspicions got to Peter, made him feel like
an impostor, an inside threat that had somehow managed to cheat its way
into the heart of the government.
But tonight Peter didn’t let Hawkins’s glare trouble him. He paused by
the windows at the end of the hall and looked out over the Rose Garden,
and the glowing windows of the White House mansion. This was why he
had been so careful for so long. He had earned a spot here, trusted with the
nation’s most closely held confidences.
He loved these limbo hours in the evenings and early mornings, when
the political staff had mostly gone home. The desks were empty, the phones
silent, the hallways still. In those moments, the White House was no longer
a field of crises and partisan battle. All he could feel was the tradition and
ceremony of the place.
His blue badge gave him all access, and sometimes he would roam the
White House at night, have the first floors to himself. Even after almost a
year of working here and even knowing intimately the costs and treachery
of political life—few knew it better than he did—it still filled him with awe
to have a desk in this place and to be able to play his part, however small.
His father had once had trust like this, and when he lost it, it killed him.
“You look like shit, Sutherland.”
The chief of staff, Diane Farr, came around the corner behind him, a
mug in her hand. “Just because I already buried you down there doesn’t
mean you can die on me, okay?”
“Understood.”
That kind of access to the chief of staff was unusual, but so was
everything else about Peter’s job, working an emergency line that went
straight to her and Hawkins, that only they knew about. Farr had hired him,
brought him to the White House, given him this chance to prove himself.
She worked tirelessly, seven days a week, with a sharp-tongued
relentlessness that always made him think of a gruff newspaper editor in a
movie from the thirties. She was striking, with chin-length black hair and
bangs, green eyes, and fair skin with the slightest touch of olive.
Running the White House was a job for masochists—chiefs of staff
often left the West Wing via stroke or heart attack—but she seemed to
survive it with a faint air of amusement, like she was watching all of this
drama from the mezzanine. She had cycled in and out of the private sector,
never married. Whenever she wanted, she could bail out to a high-end
finance gig in New York, and coast on her connections.
“Are you getting any sleep?” she asked, leaning in slightly to examine
the circles under his eyes.
“Here and there.”
“How long have we had you on the desk?”
“About ten months.” He looked at her mug: black coffee, steam rising
off the top like smoke. She was settling in for a long night. “Though I don’t
know why you need a watch officer if you never go home.”
“Only a couple more hours.” She smiled and turned to go.
Peter took the stairs down to the ground floor. A plaque on a mahogany
door said White House Situation Room—Restricted Area.
Peter rolled his shoulders back slightly and stood his full height. Even
after a lifetime of being careful, there was nowhere he was more vigilant
than in this room, the sanctum of America’s secrets.
He carried himself differently here, because he carried his own secrets,
those special orders that could be shared only with his two superiors,
Hawkins and Farr, secrets he didn’t understand himself: why they needed
him on the watch, and who might come calling on the phone line he stood
by every night.
He swiped his ID and stepped inside.
OceanofPDF.com
3
STRAIGHT AHEAD, PAST the reception area, the watch officers sat at a
long desk, eyes fixed on their triple monitors.
The night watch was all business. Peter’s entry merited little more than
a raised hand from Mark who worked at the CIA and “What’s up,
Sutherland,” from Jessica, the watch officer from the Pentagon. She was
from Puerto Rico, a former marine intelligence officer, who would often
join Peter for midnight lunch.
The Situation Room isn’t a room. It’s a suite of offices under the West
Wing, a warren of watch desks and displays and partitions. What people
think of when they think of the Situation Room—the command center with
the long oak table and the clocks ticking down seconds in time zones
around the world—was through a door to his left. It’s where they defused
the Cuban missile crisis and planned the mission to kill bin Laden. For all
its gravitas, down here it went by a simple name: large conference room.
Updates from operations streamed in from military and diplomatic
sources around the world, fleshed out by signals intelligence and field
reports from CIA officers and their agents. The watch officers’ attention
circled the globe with the rising sun, as adversaries woke up. Morning was
hitting Southeast Asia when Peter arrived.
At any moment, President Michael Travers might walk in and all would
stand. An officer could find himself or herself as POTUS’s first source on a
breaking crisis, taken aside into the president’s breakout room with glass
walls that turned white for privacy at the touch of a button.
Peter walked past the long desks of the main watch center, past the
president’s chair, and continued to the far end of the suite, to his cube, not
much more than a shelf in the back corner with a waist-high partition beside
it.
There was the phone, the emergency line. It sat on his desk in silence as
it had nearly all of his last 284 nights on the watch. In those endless hours
between dusk and dawn, he would stare at it, willing it to ring.
He took his seat, and put his ID card into the reader on his desk to
unlock his computer.
Every night Farr or her deputy would send him a list of late-breaking
events and questions, and he would scour open-source news and the intel
databases and pull together answers and analyses.
He often wondered if that work was simply putting him to good use,
and the real job was waiting, watching that phone.
Everyone in the Situation Room was cleared top secret, but they all had
confidences they kept from each other, loyalties to their home agencies,
special access programs and codeword intelligence that required even
stricter handling than TS.
That phone was Peter’s secret. If it rang, any information that came
through it was to go “eyes only” to Hawkins and Farr.
The Sit Room was built from the ground up for that kind of discretion.
Each desk was fitted with a small button that activated a speaker overhead,
and sent out a noise-canceling wave of static. It sounded like the faintest
hiss, but it was so effective that as you watched the speaker’s lips move and
heard no sound come out, for a moment you thought you had been rendered
deaf.
Along one wall ran the Superman tubes, as everyone referred to them,
cylindrical phone booths, sealed off with curving plexiglass for calls that
absolutely couldn’t be heard elsewhere within the room. They made the
place look like a sci-fi set.
Even Peter didn’t know what his phone line was for. The callers were
supposed to use codes to indicate priority and subject matter. His job was
simply to be a voice on the receiving end, to route the messages to his
superiors, and make sure they picked up in an emergency.
When Farr and Hawkins had first briefed him, they seemed surprised
that he hadn’t pressed them for more information about the phone line. Of
course he wanted to know, but he was careful and strict, and respected the
rules on classified information as if lives depended on it, because they did.
He knew all too well what happened when those rules were broken.
The whole thing sounded like a thrill at the start. He had even imagined
a true crisis coming on the line and saw himself making the long walk
through the gallery to the residence to wake POTUS himself.
That was 284 nights ago.
The Situation Room was small, far drabber than the slick mock-ups on
television, and every night it seemed to shrink a bit more.
Even the keyhole intercepts and Superman tubes had lost their novelty.
Ten months of living on a vampire schedule wears you down until you feel
like an automaton fueled by the thin, bitter, hours-old coffee from the White
House Mess.
He missed action, the endless hard physical training of college athletics,
the rush of the chase from his days as a surveillance specialist in Boston.
In all his time on the watch, the phone had rung only once. A man’s
voice came on the line, composed, but with a trace of desperation behind it:
“This is a night action,” he said.
“Can you verify that, please,” Peter replied, as he had been instructed.
“Pen. Clock. Door. Fire.”
It was a mnemonic key that confirmed the status and legitimacy of the
call.
The caller hadn’t said a word after that. He hadn’t needed to. “Night
action” was a standard term in the op centers and watch desks around DC. It
meant a crisis, call, or cable that was so urgent that the principal, be it the
CIA director or the defense secretary, needed to be woken up.
Peter had called Hawkins and Farr, and when neither picked up, per
protocol, he went to the Secret Service office down the hall. They sent a car
to Farr’s house and woke her, and she connected on the line twelve minutes
later. After that, Peter was off the call. On the desk for 284 nights and
twelve minutes of action.
He’d passed almost a year of his life down here, a hard year, chained to
this phone that never rang for reasons he didn’t understand.
The work had cost him more than he liked to think about. He still wore
the Hamilton Field watch with the leather band, but he never looked at the
inscription on the back: P+L, Forever.
His ex-fiancée, Leah. She had wanted him to get out of government. He
had been lucky to get the White House job through Farr, but the FBI higherups would never fully accept him, let him rise through the ranks. Leah
would always ask him why he worked so hard for so little for a bureau that
didn’t want him. He had his reasons. Peter remembered the night his father
died, remembered an unanswered call.
He liked nights. Liked the discipline. He sat beside that silent phone,
scanned on his monitor a satellite photo of a troop buildup on the LatvianRussian border, and let the work fill his mind.
Nine P.M., ten. The minutes crawled by. Click, scroll, type, repeat. By
eleven, he fell into a groove, and forgot the clock.
At 1:05 A.M. his phone rang. Peter stared at it for an instant as if it was a
hallucination, then lifted the handset to his ear. It was the emergency line.
“Go ahead.”
“Hello?” a young woman asked, her voice wavering, the terror plain.
“Yes. Go ahead.”
“Night action. They told me to tell you that. That you would know what
to do. My name is Rose Larkin—” Two muffled cracks broke out in the
background. “He’s here. He’s inside. He’s going to kill me.”
OceanofPDF.com
4
AT SIX O’CLOCK that evening, Dimitri Sokolov took the cover off his
metronome and slid the counterweight down to molto allegro. He brushed
his finger against the arm, and it began ticking back and forth with the pace
of a panicked heartbeat.
He raised the lid of a black case and lifted a violin from the velvet. He
had received the instrument, an eighteenth-century Mittenwald, as a gift for
his twelfth birthday. Along the neck, the dark varnish was completely worn
away.
He rested it under his chin and looked over the music on the stand
before him. It had been a long time since he had opened the violin case, a
long time since he had tried Mendelssohn’s Concerto. It had been his wife’s
favorite. Today was her birthday, the first since she had passed.
He took each step slowly, deliberately, like a priest at an altar. He started
in the middle passage to warm up, a long lyrical section that was
unforgiving to his out-of-practice fingers. The movements on the bow and
fingerboard came automatically, though already the strain was growing in
the muscles of his hands. He was used to working with his hands; it was his
livelihood, but not in this way.
Dimitri knew what was coming, a fugue passage of double-stops and
runs, a difficult task even for a trained violinist in top form.
He slit his eyes and the muscles around his jaw tightened as he sawed
the bow. That sort of intensity in his face would have shocked any of the
few people who knew him, as would his dexterity with the violin.
He didn’t hide here in the US. Purposely avoiding attention would only
bring it. But he had a way of concealing himself in plain sight.
He was friendly enough with his neighbors, but if you pressed them to
describe him, the response would be so general as to be useless. Medium
build, medium height, regular haircut, tapered and parted on the left, not
especially outgoing but not reclusive either. He would wave and say hello,
but never offered much more than a few empty pleasantries.
He seemed to be a regular empty-nester dad and DC bureaucrat. The
Americans had a phrase for it—a gray man. It was only when someone
really focused that he would notice the only exceptional thing about
Dimitri: his perfect nothingness.
A loose strand on his violin bow danced in the air as he approached the
scherzo.
The music had him now, the early nerves giving way to focus as his
eyes raced across the long, slurred progressions of sixteenth notes leading
to the crescendo. It was a difficult passage, one he hadn’t managed since
she died, always giving up, fingers cramped, and slamming shut the case.
He could connect all the notes, but he needed more than that, he needed
expression, feeling, and all he had been able to put together was a technical
succession of sounds.
But tonight, it was coming, and as the violin sang, cradled between his
cheek and shoulder, he remembered the first time he had played it for
Carolina. He shut his eyes, and felt the tears welling inside them as he
approached the climax. He knew it by heart.
His phone rang, a cheap electric warble accompanied by the rattling of
plastic on wood as it vibrated. He disregarded it and tried to go on, but that
was the encrypted phone, one he couldn’t ignore. He put the violin down
and answered on the fourth ring.
“BEECH?” he asked.
“Yes. It’s time. They’re at the Westin in Arlington. Henry and Paulette
Campbell. They’re undercover as contractors for the Department of
Commerce.”
“Do they have the red ledger?”
“It’s in their possession. I don’t know if it’s on them or at the house or
elsewhere. They might have family with them, a girl named Rose Larkin,
their niece. What are you going to do?”
“You want to know?” he asked. With stakes this high, lives being taken
and war at risk, people often preferred to keep their blinders on.
A pause, then BEECH responded: “No.”
“I’ll take care of it.” Dimitri disconnected. A year ago, at the beginning
of this operation, they had sent a Metro train off its tracks, an attack that
had been made to look like an accident. They killed dozens. What were a
few more?
The violin and bow went back in the case. He had been expecting the
call, so his equipment was in the kitchen in a small range bag. He pushed
aside the napkin caddy, the woven place mats, and the salt and pepper
shakers and put the nylon bag on the table.
He had a middle-aged man’s taste for simple, reliable tools. He reached
into the bag and pulled out a pistol, then ran a quick function check on the
Glock 17, racking it twice and dry firing it at the oven. He checked each
magazine by glancing at the witness holes and pressing down the top round
with his thumb; all were full, all seventeen rounds. In a side pocket, there
were three pairs of flex-cuffs, nylon over a steel reinforcement, and a
suppressor to fit the Glock. Finally, there was an inexpensive Swedish
knife, a type favored by outdoorsmen and survivalists. He had put such a
fine edge on it that it could cut skin without even being noticed.
The other bag, filled with electronics, was in the car. He zipped his kit
shut, and switched off the light. He was halfway through the door when he
turned, went back and double-checked that the oven was off.
On his way through the living room, he stilled the metronome, then
stepped out the front door. The neighbors’ kids were running around in their
driveway in the waning light, playing street hockey in their sneakers with
two upside-down trash cans for a goal. He waved to them as he climbed
into his car, tuned in NPR, and headed for Arlington.
He parked in the lot of a diner across the street from the hotel, about
two hundred yards down the street, and surveyed his surroundings. After
twenty minutes, a figure appeared in his side-view mirror, a woman in her
late twenties, in a skirt and blouse, and a black jacket with a high neck.
Everything about her said LA or New York, not DC.
Dimitri knew her from his advance work: Rose Larkin, age twentyeight. He rested his hand on the passenger seat, beside a road atlas that
covered the suppressed Glock, as she passed just feet from him.
OceanofPDF.com
5
ROSE STROLLED PAST the diner, moving quickly in her heels,
sunglasses mirroring the passersby. She got a few looks from the men, but
she was used to that.
She was here to pick up her aunt and uncle from the hotel, but they had
texted that they were running late. To kill time, she had gone around the
corner and had what passed for coffee in these soulless precincts of
Northern Virginia.
As she walked back to her parking spot, she saw a chalk line on the tire
of her car—her aunt and uncle’s car, actually—a classic Mercedes SL
convertible that her uncle had stripped down to the engine and restored.
She placed her sunglasses on top of her head as she strode toward it, and
checked her iPhone. She had been parked there for two hours and fifteen
minutes, but there was no ticket under the wiper.
She turned left and right, glancing up and down the street, blasé,
looking to all the world like a young professional with her act together. But
the Carolina Herrera jacket and the Prada shoes, the whole outward-facing
persona, was carefully constructed. She wore it like armor. She couldn’t
afford a ticket.
She reached down, eased the four-hundred-dollar pump off her left foot,
then crouched and used its sole to scrub off the chalk mark.
After a few seconds, the tire was clear, and she stood to find an older
man walking a terrier and staring at her with a disappointed look. With the
shoe still on her hand, she winked at him. Then she pulled her heel back on
and headed for the hotel. Her aunt and uncle were ready.
She met them just inside the lobby and hugged them both. Her aunt was
tiny, five two, with deep smile lines around her eyes. Her uncle was a
beanpole, dressed in his usual uniform of a Lands’ End shirt and jacket, and
pleated khakis with a cell phone holster on the waist. They both looked
exhausted.
“Thank you for picking us up,” her aunt said. Rose was supposed to get
them at the airport, but they had changed plans at the last minute. “You
didn’t have to.”
“It’s the least I could do. And I love driving that car.”
“Oh good,” her aunt said, as they started walking toward the Mercedes.
“We had to hammer out a few things with a client and the legal team, so we
came with them straight from the airport.”
“What are you working on?”
“LTE data standardization for government services.”
“Cool,” Rose said, but she was barely paying attention, her eyes fixed
on the yellow ticket under her wiper. She scanned the street, but the parking
officer was nowhere to be seen.
“But I . . .”
“Did you rub off the chalk?” her aunt asked.
“Well . . .”
“They all use plate scanners. The chalk is a backup.”
“I think it’s a decoy, to lull you into a false sense of security,” her uncle
added.
“Twisted,” Rose said, as if there was something unfair about cheating a
cheat.
“You know parking in DC is a blood sport.” Her aunt sneaked up to her
side and pinched the ticket out of her hand.
“Wait!” Rose said.
“We’ll take care of this. It’s our car.”
“It’s my fault.”
“It’s the least we can do for you taking care of the house.”
Rose relented. She climbed into the back seat of the Mercedes, and they
started down the highway. Rose had been watching their place while they
were on a work trip. They both had worked for the Department of
Commerce, and after retiring, they went back as contractors.
Rose lived in Los Angeles, until recently at least. The startup she
founded had gone under, and she’d broken up with her boyfriend, and
“house-sitting for family” was a much nicer term than “homeless.”
She had grown up around Manassas. Her mom had raised Rose on her
own, but she had trouble with alcohol, and was always running from one
guy to the next.
Rose went to work at Denny’s when she was fourteen, forging her
mom’s signature on the permission form. They needed the money and the
leftover food she brought home.
When she was young, her aunt and uncle’s home served as Rose’s
sanctuary, cluttered with books, shelves lining every wall and even the
hallways.
Rose didn’t talk to her mother anymore. The last time she’d heard from
her, she was living in Belize with a guy she met at a boat show.
Rose’s aunt had asked her to come look after the house, and the timing
was so perfect that Rose wondered if somehow her aunt had heard about
Rose’s recent troubles. It was Henry and Paulette, saving the day again,
making it sound like Rose was doing them a favor. It could have been
eighteen years ago, with Rose in the back seat of this same car, at their
house for the weekend while her mom was off God knows where, Rose
finally letting her guard down, somehow feeling that everything would be
okay. They were the only people she had ever truly trusted.
Her aunt’s eyes kept going to the mirrors.
Rose glanced at the cars behind them. “Is everything okay?” she asked.
“Oh yes,” her aunt said, smiling now, bright as ever. “I was wondering
if I forgot a charger. How is the house? Did anything come up?”
“Smooth sailing. I caught the recycling guys this morning.”
Her uncle looked at her in the rearview mirror. “How’s the business
going, dear?”
“Good,” Rose said, drawing out the word. “I can take it easy for a while
before we have to line up financing for our next phase.”
“Expanding?” her uncle asked.
Rose shifted in her seat. “Pivoting a bit.”
“Pivoting?” her uncle said, as if trying out the taste of the word, and
finding he didn’t like it. It was a tech euphemism for crashing and burning
and starting over.
“Everything is going great,” Rose said, with finality.
Her aunt turned slightly in the passenger seat and their eyes met. Rose
gave her a half-hearted smile, and then looked down.
She had always had a knack for making people believe what she wanted
them to believe, but these two could see through her.
At the house, Rose heated up pasta with chicken and vegetables that she’d
made the night before. Her aunt and uncle went upstairs to change before
dinner. As they ate, and Henry leafed through the mail, Rose could tell they
were both exhausted, barely keeping up with small talk about what had
been happening in the neighborhood.
After Rose and her aunt did the dishes, Rose picked up her computer
bag, and started toward the stairs. “I’ll let you all take it easy,” she said.
Her aunt’s face fell. “Do you want some tea?”
“Well . . .”
That was what they did here, sat around the table long after the meal
was done, telling stories, cracking each other up. But Rose didn’t feel like
talking. She was tired of keeping up the facade.
“And I think I have some Girl Scout cookies left.”
“Really?” Rose hadn’t seen any.
Her aunt pulled a chair over and reached into the back of a high cabinet.
She came out with a box of Tagalongs. “I have to hide them or else Henry
will eat them all. I forgot to tell you they were up there.”
Had she? They were Rose’s favorite, and she felt like perhaps she was
being enticed, but she didn’t care. Tagalongs were Tagalongs.
Her aunt put two bags of tea into mugs and started the electric kettle,
then put the moka pot on the stove for Henry. He could drink coffee at any
hour without it keeping him up.
He came back downstairs a few minutes later, and his eyes went to the
box of cookies like a wolf’s to its prey.
OceanofPDF.com
6
OUTSIDE, DIMITRI WAITED in his Accord, watching the house,
perfectly still save for his breathing. Through the earpiece in his left ear, he
listened to the three inside the house, sitting and talking.
For a moment Dimitri remembered his own kitchen table, drinking
smoky black tea with Carolina.
The radio on his lap came to life: “We’re all set up to hit the house. We
can kill the lights and telephones. Do you want to go in now?”
The rest of Dimitri’s team was parked around the corner. He looked at
the clouds, drifting over the moon, then lifted the handset. He would wait.
He wanted full dark. He wanted them unsuspecting.
“Not yet. Stand by. On my order.”
He put the radio down on the passenger seat, beside the pistol, and as he
listened to the voices around the table, the conversation moving in easy
rhythms as with old friends, he couldn’t help but smile.
OceanofPDF.com
7
ROSE SAT BACK, laughing, her hand on her chest, as her aunt finished a
story about being mistaken for an Uber driver in her Prius. For the first time
in a long while, she forgot about the overdue invoices and credit card bills.
It grew late, and as her aunt brought their mugs to the sink, she turned to
Rose.
“You know, we have so much room here and we’re at work all the time
or traveling. I know you have a lot going on, but we’d love to have you stay
for as long as you want. We could use the company.”
Did she know? Was this a graceful way of offering up a refuge?
“Thank you,” Rose said, and shut her eyes, surprised by the sudden
surge of emotion. “Things are a little crazy right now. That . . . that might
be nice.”
Rose and her aunt talked for another hour. Rose vented. She could hear
her uncle in the kitchen, putting away dishes, singing an old Stevie Wonder
tune, their wedding song. She’d always rolled her eyes, thinking it was
sappy when she was a teenager, how he would scoot around with a dishrag
over his shoulder, humming “You Are the Sunshine of My Life.” But she
didn’t feel that way now. It was familiar, sweet.
She hadn’t realized how badly she needed to say it all out loud, to let it
hurt. It was nearly midnight when she hugged her aunt good night, went
upstairs, brushed her teeth and washed her face, and then climbed into bed
and shut off the light.
OceanofPDF.com
8
A PULSING SHRIEK pulled Rose from her sleep. She sat up and
recognized the sound: the smoke detector.
She checked her cell—almost one A.M.—and slid to the side of the bed.
Her feet touched the cold floor, and she made her way through the room by
the glow of her telephone screen. The display said she had no signal. Weird.
She always had five bars here.
She hit the light switch by the door: nothing.
The alarm rang down the hallway as she pulled on a sweatshirt, and
walked out of the bedroom, guiding herself with a hand on the wall. Then
the sound cut off.
In the silence, she picked up an acrid scent, like the fumes from burning
plastics, but it was faint.
Her panic rose, every breath shorter and faster than the next, but she
forced herself to move slowly, carefully along the hardwood.
Her uncle’s voice echoed up the stairs.
“Can you get the call through?”
“I’m trying,” her aunt answered. “The landline’s out. There’s no cell
signal.”
As Rose came down the stairs, her aunt said something about protecting
the sources. Rose tried to make out the words: “chemist,” and “book,” and
“binder.”
“You don’t trust them?” Henry asked.
“It’s a precaution. Keep them out of it.”
“Fine.” A door slammed.
Her aunt strode through the kitchen carrying a flashlight, the cordless
phone to her ear.
“Hello? Hello?” There was panic and desperation in her voice.
She looked at the phone, stabbed a button, and cursed—a word Rose
had never heard cross her lips before.
Rose stood in the hall outside the kitchen, knowing she needed to move,
but her legs felt fixed to the floor. When her aunt turned, Rose saw the
pistol, black and gleaming, in a holster clipped to her belt.
“Paulette,” Rose said finally. “What’s happening?”
Her aunt whipped toward her with the flashlight, stinging her eyes.
“Rose, sweetheart . . .” She looked at the picture window at the front of
the house, took Rose’s arm, and led her back to the kitchen.
“Is something burning? What the hell is going on?”
“It’s . . . there’s not a lot of time to explain.” Her aunt’s eyes flicked
from window to window.
Rose stared at the holstered pistol, and shivered.
The door to the garage opened and her uncle walked in, wiping the
inside corners of his eyes with his thumb and index finger and coughing. He
held a sheaf of papers in one hand and two thumb drives in the other. The
chemical smell intensified, and in the garage, Rose could see black smoke
hovering near the ceiling. He was burning something.
“I couldn’t get through on my cell,” he said. “But I destroyed all the
OSPREY source material. You didn’t use any of the encryption keys on the
Mac—”
He stopped when he saw Rose.
“Please just tell me what is happening,” she said.
Her aunt walked to her uncle’s side, and they spoke in whispers for a
moment, then Henry turned to Rose.
“It’s work. It’s not safe here. There’s some confidential material we
have, and when I got up I thought I saw someone watching the house.
There’s a chance they may try something.”
“A chance! Paulette has a fucking gun. Someone’s outside. And why
don’t any of the phones work?”
“Rose. Listen. Listen very carefully. This is not fair and I’m sorry I
can’t tell you the whole story, but you have to pay attention because we
want to make sure you stay safe.”
She started to protest, then let her hands fall.
“Okay. Okay,” she said. She didn’t want to panic. She just wanted to get
through this. “What is it?”
Her uncle tore one of the pages from the reminder pad on the fridge, and
began to write.
“We have to stay here for a little while and finish something,” he said.
“You’re going to go out the back door, to Paulette’s car. Drive down to the
Mobil station. There’s a pay phone there. Call this number. And tell them
it’s a night action. They will know what that means and they will ask you to
confirm who you are. Repeat this.”
He put the note on the dining table, and pointed at the words as he
spoke them: “Pen. Clock. Door. Fire.”
“What does that mean?”
“It’s just a way of verifying who you are, and how important the call is.
That will connect you to the people we work for. Tell them the code and
where you are and that you need help, and tell them that OSPREY was
right. It’s happening in six days. We have the red ledger.”
“What? Why don’t you tell them yourselves? Why aren’t you coming
with me?”
“We will, but we need to take care of something first. We’ll be right
there. So if you can get to a phone, we can use the help. There’ll be time to
explain everything later, okay? Now what are you going to say?”
“Mobil pay phone. Night action. Pen. Clock. Door. Fire. I’ll tell them
where I am. That I need help. That OSPREY was right. We only have six
days.” She took a deep breath. “And that you have the red ledger.”
“Good. Tell no one else. Just the people who answer the phone.”
“Who’s coming for you?”
“Rose. There’s no time. Trust us.”
Henry stared out the front window. “You need to go.”
His voice was so grave, so alien, that Rose put aside her questions, and
nodded. “Okay.”
She took the keys, went to the back door, and slipped her bare feet into
her sneakers. Her aunt and uncle exchanged a few quiet words in the
kitchen, then her uncle joined Rose and opened the door. He stepped out,
drew his own pistol, and moved silently, expertly, suddenly a stranger to her
as he scanned the dark.
His attention went toward the front of the house, as if he were standing
between her and the threat. The car was parked on the side street. He
nodded his head to indicate it was safe, and she started across the lawn. The
wet grass brushed cold against her ankles and the hems of her pajama
bottoms.
Forty feet from the car, she heard a faint sound, like running shoes on
the street. She stopped and held her breath. After a moment, she made out a
black figure standing beside the car. The shadows moved to her left:
someone getting closer. She thought he was coming for her, but then he
passed in between her and the house. Her first instinct was to shout a
warning to her aunt and uncle, but that would only put them all in danger.
She needed to get help, but she couldn’t reach the car without getting
too close to these men. She slipped into the backyard, skirting the tangle of
blackberry bushes where she used to play hide-and-seek with the
neighborhood kids. Crouching, she passed through a split-rail fence, and ran
through a patch of tangled woods toward the Rubinos’ house.
Rose rang the doorbell. With all the madness going on at the house, she was
surprised how worried she was about waking these people up in the middle
of the night.
She rang again and checked her phone. Still no signal. What the hell
was happening?
No one answered. There was no car in the driveway. She peered inside,
nose to the glass. In the glow from the red standby lights on the TV and
cable box, she saw a rubber tree with a watering bulb stuck in the potting
soil.
They were gone, and there was a cordless phone on the island leading to
the open kitchen.
She had tried to be silent but had made so much noise running through
those trees. She looked back the way she had come. The Rubinos’ house,
with its long sloping roof, was the only property out here. It backed onto a
creek. There was nowhere else to go. Those shadows would find her soon.
She looked under the flowerpot and the mat and checked a decorative
stone with a Celtic cross carved into the top, but there was no spare key.
White explosions flashed down the hill, muffled, more like snaps than
the crack of fireworks. They came from somewhere in front of her aunt and
uncle’s house, each blast silhouetting it in red. Gunshots.
Rose picked up the stone, faced the door, and shattered the glass.
OceanofPDF.com
9
PAULETTE STOOD IN the dark near the front window of her house. She
had turned off the flashlight so she could see better through the glass,
instead of waiting, staring at her reflection, visible to anyone outside.
She flinched slightly as the door from the garage closed. Henry walked
into the kitchen.
“Are they gone?” he asked.
“Or waiting.”
“Why?”
“Surround us?”
“Let’s go out the back.”
“You’re done?”
He looked toward the garage. “I did enough. You should have gone with
Rose.”
“I told you. I’m not leaving you here alone.”
She walked toward the rear of the house, and stopped, her eyes on the
sliding glass doors. “They’re already out there.”
“The garage?” Henry looked out the kitchen window and caught
movement. He shook his head.
“How many are there?” she asked.
“I don’t know.”
They had the exits covered. They would breach the house at any
moment—a door, a window, there was no way of knowing where they
would enter.
Paulette drew her pistol, and Henry followed suit. They went back-toback in the main hall, covering as many entrances as they could.
“OSPREY,” Henry muttered. They were retired, though it was from FBI
counterintelligence, not Commerce. OSPREY was the source who had
started them in on this case, who had led them to the ledger. It began as
such a small thing, a favor, an unofficial investigation, and now this. At
least they had hidden the ledger. It was safe.
“I didn’t hear the car,” Paulette said. “What about Rose?”
“It’s quiet. She’ll be okay.”
“How can you be sure?”
“She’s a survivor. They want the book. They want us. Though I never
pictured this. In our own house.” He let out a dark laugh. “Retired.”
“We’ll be fine. Remember Orlando?”
“Is that supposed to make me feel better?”
“We made it out. We always do.”
Stones crunched outside—someone moving through the gravel.
She pressed her back against his.
The doorknob rattled.
A flash of white light filled the family room window, blinding them.
Glass blew in and rained down on the oak floorboards and Persian rugs.
Another shot came an instant later, as Paulette turned toward the window.
She cried in pain and fell back, landing on her hip and elbow. Henry fired
through the shattered window as cool night air rushed into the house.
Another explosion of light. Another shot, and he doubled over.
The kitchen door slammed open with the sound of splintering wood,
and then the front door blew in. Armed men rushed into the house while
Henry leaned over, his left hand held to his abdomen and his right,
unsteady, raising the gun. He wheeled on the first man through the front
door, but as his aim fixed on the man’s head, another came from behind
him, seized his forearm, and stripped the gun from his hand.
He broke away and tried to move toward his wife, fallen in the shadows,
silent. He couldn’t see how badly she was hurt. “Paulette. Paulette, talk to
me.”
Before he could reach her, a man stepped in his path. Even in the faint
light, Henry could have sworn he had seen him before—medium height,
medium build, a haircut just like Henry’s own, tapered and parted on the
left. But the figure before him looked so generic, like any father he might
see on the Metro or pushing a cart at Safeway, that Henry might have been
mistaken.
“Get away from her,” Henry said with an animal growl, and moved on
him with a sudden ferocity despite the blood leaking through his hand. The
man seized Henry’s lead hand and bent it outward, wrenching the elbow as
his other hand went to Henry’s neck and drove him against the wall,
choking off the cry of pain before it could escape his mouth.
A flashlight came on behind him, and one man ran upstairs while
another searched the shelves.
A slick red stain grew on Henry’s dress shirt, about five inches to the
left of his navel. The man’s face was so close to his he could feel his breath.
His calm in the midst of this violence was more terrifying than any threat.
“Where is it?” the man asked.
He eased his grip on Henry’s neck, but still Henry said nothing.
“The ledger. Where is it?”
“Who sent you?” Henry kept his voice even.
“I’m going to give you one more chance to tell me,” the man said. “Or
else I will kill her.”
Henry shut his eyes, and his chin trembled. Paulette lay on the ground
behind the attacker, now lit by the flashlight’s blue-white glow. “She’s
already dead.”
A voice called from the stairs in Russian, a language Henry understood
well. “The girl is gone.”
Anger took over the man’s face, the first visible emotion he had shown.
He glared at Henry, then looked to the door to the garage, and then out the
rear window, to the lawn, a split-rail fence, and a stand of trees.
“Find the girl.”
OceanofPDF.com
10
ROSE REACHED THROUGH the broken pane in the front door, and a
shard dug into the back of her hand. She hissed. A bead of blood grew from
the cut as she reached farther and opened the dead bolt.
The house’s alarm let out an electric whine as she stepped inside, and
the security panel beside the door read: “Entry active—Disarm system.”
She ignored it and went straight for the cordless phone.
When she lifted it, she heard no dial tone. A sick feeling twisted her
stomach. But then she pressed the talk button, and the tone sounded.
She began to dial the number from the note her uncle had given her, and
then caught a shadow moving outside. She could see a figure striding
toward the house, a gun held out in front of him.
Looking down at the phone, she realized she had lost her place. She
hung up and punched in the numbers again as she ran through the
unfamiliar house. The first hallway she tried dead-ended at a guest
bathroom. She turned around and ran upstairs.
The front door creaked open. The phone, pressed to her ear, rang and
rang. She stepped into a room, a child’s room, dropped into the closet, and
shut the door.
A musty smell filled the small space. She sat back on the floor against
the wall, her side pressed into a stack of sweatshirts. The hanging jackets
and shirts brushed over her hair.
The phone pressed against her ear. A man’s voice came on the other end
of the line: “Go ahead.”
Rose knew that making a sound might get her killed, but she needed to
tell him, she needed to get help. She had promised them that.
“Hello?”
“Yes. Go ahead.”
“Night action. They told me to tell you that. That you would know what
to do. My name is Rose Larkin—” Two snaps broke the silence, muffled
gunshots. “He’s here. He’s inside. He’s going to kill me.”
“I’m here,” a calm voice answered. “My name is Peter. You’re going to
get through this, Rose.”
OceanofPDF.com
11
HENRY LEANED AGAINST the wall, wincing with every breath, his
hand clamped over the wound. Two shooters covered him.
The lead gunman—his deputy had called him Dimitri—stood over
Paulette’s body and listened to his radio.
He turned to one of the men. “They have the girl cornered in the house
out back,” Dimitri said in quiet Russian, a Urals accent, then pointed to the
rear window. “Go.”
The man left, and Dimitri faced Henry. “I know you can understand
me,” he said. “Just tell me where the ledger is, and we can leave her out of
this.”
Henry looked around the room and noticed one of the attackers wearing
an earpiece that was hooked up to a small black box, a scanner. They were
listening to the police frequencies. Those had been encrypted for years,
which meant that these people had serious resources behind them.
“Who are you?” Henry asked.
“A soldier. Like you. I take no pleasure in this, but I will do what I
must.”
No masks, using names, openly speaking Russian: Henry knew they
were going to kill him, but as he watched the man with the scanner, and saw
his jaw clench as he listened, Henry believed he had time on his side. Had
someone heard the shots? Called the police?
The tech with the earpiece came up beside Dimitri and whispered
something in his ear.
Dimitri lifted the pistol. The dead eye of the muzzle pointed straight at
Henry.
“Last chance.”
“No.”
Dimitri glanced to Paulette’s body for a moment, with something like
sadness. That look, on the face of the man who had killed her, was an
obscenity.
“It’s better this way,” Dimitri said. “To go with her. The rest is . . .”
He shook his head and pulled the trigger.
OceanofPDF.com
12
ROSE CLUTCHED THE phone to her ear. She knew about taking cover
in spots like this, her heart pounding in her chest. Her mother had a type.
The type you hide from when they get angry, red-faced with beer breath.
But she hadn’t felt fear like this in years, had forgotten the awful way it
dried the throat until you felt like you were choking.
“I need help,” she whispered into the handset. “My aunt and uncle gave
me this number. I have a code.”
She pulled the paper from the pocket of a hooded sweatshirt, but it was
too dark to read. She thought of cracking the door slightly for light, but then
heard the creak of footsteps below her. The stairs? She closed her eyes and
remembered the scrawl on the page.
“Pen. Door . . . Fire. Wait. Clock. Pen. Door. F-fire . . . Jesus . . .”
“It’s fine. Forget the code. What’s happening?”
“It’s 1765 Euclid Terrace. My aunt and uncle are there. There were
shots fired. I’m in the house behind it. I had to get away. It’s on Bancroft. I
don’t know the address, but there’s only one house back here. My aunt and
uncle told me to call this number. They are Henry and Paulette Campbell.
They need help. Now. They told me to tell you that OSPREY was right. It’s
happening in six days, and they have the red ledger.”
“What is happening?”
“I don’t know. That’s all they said.”
“I’ll send help. I need to talk to someone here—”
“Are you going?” She could hear the desperation in her own voice. She
felt so small.
“No. I can reach another phone. I’m not going anywhere. We’re going
to keep you safe, all right? I am right here.”
“Okay.”
The line went quiet. In the silence, she could hear only her breath,
coming far too fast now, and then the faintest sound: the stairs flexed, and
then the boards in the hallway. Her breath caught as the gunman moved
toward her. He was searching the house.
“They’re here,” she said, in the faintest voice. “I’m upstairs. I’m in a
closet. Please.”
“I’m here. I’m talking to the Secret Service.”
The Secret Service? Rose thought. What the hell is going on?
She felt oddly cold, but still a drop of sweat ran along her spine.
The door to the room opened. She turned the volume down on the
cordless until it could make no more noise than a whisper and sealed the
speaker against her ear.
“Rose. Secret Service talked to the DC police. Someone heard the shots
and called it in. The cars are on the way. They are coming around for you.
Hold on.”
She didn’t dare make a noise.
“Rose? Rose? If you’re still there just touch the microphone twice.”
She ran her thumb over the two tiny plastic holes of the phone mic. Her
hand was shaking.
“Okay,” he whispered. “I’m here with you, Rose. It’s going to be okay.”
The footsteps moved closer, and she could hear the rustling of fabric.
Was he checking under the bed? The man crossed the last few feet, stood
just outside the closet. She could hear him breathing now, feel the
floorboards flex under her as he shifted his weight from foot to foot.
What was he doing? Looking out the window? Waiting on orders?
Listening to some unseen voice on an earpiece, just like she was? Or
readying his gun?
She pictured Peter out there somewhere. Something about his voice, his
calm, made her feel like she could trust him, even in the middle of all this.
All she needed was time. A few more seconds. She felt like her heart
had seized in her chest. She kept picturing the door tearing open and a
gunman standing over her.
She hugged her knees to her chest with her free hand and thought back
to her uncle singing in the kitchen, that old Stevie Wonder song. She fixed
on that, let the melody fill her mind and push back the fear.
Two steps. The floor flexed beneath her. The shadows shifted under the
door. She clamped her eyes shut. The man moved closer, and the knob
rattled softly as a hand closed around it.
OceanofPDF.com
13
STARING AT THAT phone for 284 nights, waiting for this moment. The
call was the highest priority, a night action. But Rose Larkin was no
professional, carefully following a coded script. This was the desperate
voice of someone about to die. She needed his help.
Peter was ready. As soon as the emergency line lit up, he pressed the
button beside his phone, and a faint sound like moving water surrounded
him. No one else in the Sit Room could hear him.
While Rose was on one phone, he reached across and pulled another
handset from a surge desk, dragging it close to his own.
His first call went to the Secret Service. Their White House office was
about forty feet from his on the ground floor. The line was eyes only to
Hawkins and Farr, but there was a young woman and a killer out there, and
his first move was to get law enforcement on the scene.
“Have you run this past—” the agent started to ask.
Forget protocol. Peter cut him off. “I have a national security
employee’s family in danger. I need cars at that address.”
That did it. They raised the watch chief, who was on the phone with the
DC police as soon as he disconnected from Peter, and also sent two Secret
Service uniformed patrol officers scrambling from the Indonesian embassy
to Rose’s location.
Hawkins didn’t answer, so Peter tried Farr. He held a phone to each ear,
and looked like a madman, he knew, but he stayed calm as he raised the
alarm.
All the while, he could hear Rose’s breath coming and going.
The shooters were close. When he told her that the police were on the
way, she couldn’t even talk, only signal with faint scratches across the
microphone of her handset.
He finally got through to Farr.
“Peter, what’s going on?” She sounded like she had been sleeping.
“A night action call came in. I don’t know exactly what’s happening,
but I think we have a family member in danger, shots fired. A woman
named Rose Larkin called, said her aunt and uncle are Paulette and Henry
Campbell. There’s a shooter at her location, maybe multiple. I talked to
Secret Service first, to get some cars over there ASAP.”
“What did you tell them?”
“Employee in danger. No details. I don’t know how much was
compartmented.”
“Good. I’m glad you got them moving. I’ll be there in six minutes.”
The line clicked off.
Peter waited, the phone to his ear while Rose hid in the dark and they
closed in on her. He could barely hear her breath, but he could tell it was
coming too fast: panic taking over.
“Rose. Are you okay? Hang on. Any moment now.”
Another scratch, a rustle on the line. He stood.
“Rose?”
Sirens sounded over the phone, softly at first, so he almost thought he
was imagining them, but then louder, distinct.
“Rose. That should be the police. Rose?”
No answer. He put his free hand to the wall.
“Rose.” He wanted to shout, but that might give her away.
A quiet sob, then she spoke: “I think he’s gone.”
Peter clenched his fist. “Hold tight.”
The door to the Situation Room opened and Diane Farr strode in, her eyes
darting around the complex until she caught sight of Peter at his desk.
“Is that her?” she asked. Peter nodded and put his hand over the
mouthpiece of the phone. “The police are there.”
“In the house?”
“Not yet.”
The Sit Room door slammed open, and Hawkins walked in a moment
later, looking pissed. Farr met him and they talked briefly in the hall,
leaving Peter to the call. He heard shouts over the line.
“What’s happening?” he asked.
“They say that they’re the police,” Rose said.
Peter put his hand over the phone and called to Farr. “Are the police on
the scene?”
She nodded.
“The police are there, Rose. They know where you are. Wait for them to
come to you.”
“Thank you,” she said.
Farr held her hand out for the phone, and Peter leaned away slightly
without even thinking, a protective instinct.
“Rose,” he said into the handset. “I have someone here. She’s the chief
of staff for the White House. She knows what’s happening. I’m going to
hand the phone over to her now. Okay?”
“Wait . . . oh . . . okay. You’ll be there?”
A hint of impatience crept into Hawkins’s face as he stood on Peter’s
other side.
“Yes,” Peter said.
“Okay.” He held the phone out and as Farr took it, he could barely hear
Rose’s voice: “Goodbye.”
Farr stepped away with the phone. “Okay . . . okay . . . good . . . they’ll
take care of you.”
Hawkins put his hand on Peter’s shoulder.
“You called the Secret Service first?”
“Yes. She was in danger.”
Peter was ready for a reproach. His instructions were to connect that
line straight to Farr and Hawkins.
“All right. What did she say?”
Peter repeated what he had heard, the names and references to the
ledger, the six-day deadline, and OSPREY.
“Nothing else.”
“That was it.”
“Okay,” Hawkins said. “We’re here for the night. You can head out.”
“Sir?”
“You know the only sir in the West Wing is the president, right?”
“I want to see this through.”
“You did well, Peter.”
There was a tone of dismissal to it. Hawkins looked at him intensely, as
if this were some kind of test, of whether Peter knew his proper role.
Peter said nothing.
“Get a decent night’s sleep for once. You look like you could use it.”
He started to push back but checked himself. “I will.”
Peter emailed the intelligence briefs he had assembled and logged out of
his computer. He grabbed his bag and started walking toward the watch
desks. Farr and Hawkins were both in the breakout room now, and he
walked past them slowly, hoping for another sign of what was happening,
but the door was closed.
He was two feet past it when he heard his name. He turned to see Farr.
“Nice work tonight, Peter. The police wouldn’t have found her, or the
second house, without you.”
“What else can I do?”
“Go home. Get some rest. We’ll be here all night anyway, and we’ll
need you tomorrow.”
He hesitated for a moment, and she raised her eyebrows. Peter nodded
and turned.
As he walked past the watch officers, Jessica called over. “What’s up,
man?” she asked. A night action to the chief of staff: even for the Situation
Room, that qualified as an interesting shift.
“You know how it goes,” Peter said. They dealt with need-to-know
information all the time.
“Of course.”
He saw the others looking. They wanted to know what Peter did back
there by that phone, why he had access to the top. So did he.
OceanofPDF.com
14
ROSE GRIPPED THE handset as heavy footfalls shook the house.
“Police! Rose!”
They ran into the room. “The house is clear. You can come out!”
“They say they are the police.”
“They are, Rose,” said the woman on the other end of the line. She said
her name was Diane Farr, and she had spent their short time on the phone
together with Rose on hold or speaking in clipped tones to someone else in
the room.
Rose reached for the knob and opened the door. The light blinded her.
She took two awkward steps, stiff from being balled up in that closet. Three
cops moved through the room, kitted out in black, guns drawn.
“They’re here,” she said, but there was no one on the other end of the
phone. An instant later, a man’s voice came on. “My name is Hawkins. I’m
with the FBI. I’ll be there in ten minutes. Rose, I know this is hard, and you
have a lot of questions. But can I ask you a favor? It’s for your safety. Don’t
mention anything your aunt and uncle told you to anyone but me. Okay?”
“But why? What is happening?”
“I’ll explain it when I get there, but for now, don’t say a word. It’s not
safe.”
The call disconnected.
She squinted against the glare of the lights. One officer reached his hand
out to steady her. She thanked him, thanked them all, while tears of relief
ran down her cheeks.
They went downstairs. She didn’t like the way they were treating her,
talking to her like a child. All she wanted was answers, and a moment to
breathe, to think. Her hands wouldn’t stop trembling. Christ, she looked like
a scared kid. She stuffed her hands into her pockets.
They brought her out the back, with the Rubinos’ house blocking her
view down the hill to her aunt and uncle’s home. Suddenly she realized
why. They didn’t want her to see what was happening down there.
She pulled away from them and crossed the lawn until she could make
out the carnival of lights in front of that house.
“Rose, listen,” the man in the suit said. He had identified himself as
Secret Service, but she couldn’t remember his name now. “You’re hurt and
you’re in shock. Your hand. We need to get you checked out.”
Dried blood flaked off the cut from the windowpane, but she ignored
him. There were two ambulances parked in front of the house. Why call for
ambulances? Why would they come and not rush off? Was it because there
was nothing to be done?
“They’re dead, aren’t they?”
“Rose, now is not the—”
“Just tell me the truth.”
OceanofPDF.com
15
PETER WALKED PAST a Metro entrance. It was closed for the night.
That was fine. He avoided subways as much as he could. He had been on a
train that derailed a year ago, an awful accident that he escaped with minor
injuries, though many others died. The Metro still set him on edge, still
tightened up the muscles in his neck whenever he descended its tunnels.
He took the S4 bus up Sixteenth Street. Even in the early morning it was
crowded. It ran only every half hour and was one of the few options for
people like him who haunted the empty downtown on the late shift—
janitors and security guards and the occasional bleary-eyed young staffer
crunching to please the boss.
By the time he reached his apartment, it was two A.M. There was no
chance of sleep. He was wired. Ten months on the night watch had turned
him into a nocturnal animal.
They had sent him home. He knew the rules, knew he should stay away,
but something out there in the dark was calling to him.
He stopped at the front door to his apartment building, keys in hand,
then turned around and started walking.
His car was parked around the corner. Just a drive, he told himself,
some fresh air while rolling through the pitch-black reaches of Rock Creek
Park or the George Washington Parkway. He loved driving through DC at
night, cruising the empty streets around the monuments and storied
buildings, like it was all abandoned, a city under glass.
But as he rolled down Columbia Road, with the last of the partygoers
stumbling home like wraiths, he found himself turning toward the house on
Bancroft Avenue like a compass needle drawn to north.
OceanofPDF.com
16
THE POLICE HAD closed off the block, so Peter parked around the
corner and walked. It had been more than an hour since the gunshots, and
the cops must have had time to disperse any neighbors who were bold
enough to go beyond looking out their windows and actually approach the
crime scene.
There were still DC police and Secret Service cars parked down the hill
at the aunt and uncle’s house, though they weren’t running any emergency
lights. The scene was cold.
He edged past the yellow tape on a sidewalk and scanned the two
houses, replaying the conversation in his head, picturing it unfolding: the
attack on the house down the hill, the escape up here, the room-by-room
clearing while Rose was trapped in that closet.
He moved closer. In the driveway of the aunt and uncle’s house, near
the open back of an ambulance, a young woman stood. She had auburn hair,
swept behind her ear on one side, and wore a hooded sweatshirt and pajama
bottoms. A bandage circled her right hand. Hawkins stood beside her, half
his face lit by the interior lights of the ambulance. She was facing him
squarely, and even from here, Peter could read her body language: standing
tall, sharp and engaged. Peter assumed that was her, Rose Larkin.
A flashlight beam slashed through the woods and fixed on Peter. He
stayed calm, though he could see nothing but the light’s glare as someone
crunched through the trees toward him.
“Hey. Need you to back up. You can’t be here.”
It was a cop’s voice, and as the officer edged into the circle of light from
the streetlamp, Peter saw that she was with the DC police, the Metropolitan
Police Department or MPD for short, here to post security.
“Sure,” he said. He thought for a moment of badging her, but that would
have been an abuse of his credentials. He wasn’t supposed to be here, and
the whole story—FBI, White House, night watch—would raise more
questions than he felt like getting into at two thirty A.M.
He started to turn away.
“Hang on,” she said, and there was an edge of suspicion to her voice.
“You live around here?” In his suit, he wasn’t dressed like a curious
neighbor, like someone taking a whining dog out in the middle of the night.
“No.”
“Let’s see some ID.”
“Listen . . .”
“ID.” Now the politeness was gone. The light was back in his eyes, and
someone else was walking toward them. It made sense they would be
suspicious of anyone surveying the scene.
“I’m reaching for my wallet,” he said.
The newcomer circled to the side, into the light. It was Diane Farr.
“It’s okay, Officer Vazquez. He’s with me.”
She held on for a second, glancing back and forth from Peter to Farr.
“It’s fine,” Farr said. The cop nodded and walked toward the crime
scene.
“Peter.” Farr shook her head slightly. “What are you doing here?”
“I couldn’t sleep. What can I do to help?”
She didn’t answer, just appraised him for a moment. “You miss the
street work? The action?”
“I do.”
“I get it. We’ve had you down there a long time. You want to know
what happened?”
She wasn’t volunteering information; she was asking him if he was
curious, if he was sticking his nose in. His father had sold secrets, or so the
allegations went. This was dangerous ground.
“I don’t need to know anything.”
“Did you say anything to Vazquez?”
“Of course not.”
“Good.” Her face was pale and she looked out into the dark, focusing on
nothing, clearly still trying to process this. “The aunt and uncle are dead.
Rose Larkin is okay. Shaken up, of course, but considering what she went
through . . . she’s tough. She’ll be all right.”
Peter stared at the house. “She didn’t see the bodies?”
“No. Separate locations. You were on the phone with her the whole time
she was hiding?”
“I was.”
“It makes sense, why you would feel so close to this. But there’s a
reason we lock down information. The wider a secret goes out, the more
dangerous it gets for the people at the center of it.” She looked down to the
house where two people had just died. Case in point.
“I wish I could tell you more, Peter. You did good work tonight. You
should be proud.”
He knew better than anyone how secrets could take lives. But still, the
questions pressed in. What could be such a high priority that the chief of
staff would come out here in the middle of the night? What was that
emergency line for? Why were people dying? He held them back, only
asked one thing: “What happens to her?”
Farr smiled. “That’s why you’re good at your job, Peter. You care.
We’re going to put her up at a hotel, have an agent keep an eye out. She’ll
be safe. You don’t have to worry about that.”
“I appreciate it.”
“Sure. I’ll see you at the office tomorrow.” She glanced at her watch.
“Or today, whatever the fuck it is. And Peter, everything you heard on that
call . . .”
“Eyes only,” he said.
“Keep your head down and leave this to us. Be careful, Peter. It’s not
fair, but you can’t afford to make mistakes.”
Peter started toward his car, and after fifty feet, he turned. Rose was
down there, still talking to Hawkins, but something had changed: now they
were arguing. Rose threw her hands back. She looked like she was under
threat. Peter stood there with closed fists, thinking of Farr’s last words, the
warning. He watched as the conversation seemed to calm down, and then he
walked away.
OceanofPDF.com
17
DOWN THE HILL, Rose stared at the front door to her aunt and uncle’s
house as two EMTs emerged, carrying a stretcher. Hawkins tried to stand
between her and the house, but she pushed past him. He reached for her
shoulder, but she knocked his hand away.
“Rose, you don’t need to see that.”
There was a sheet over the stretcher, covering the still form underneath.
“We have people you can talk to. This is going to be hard.”
She expected grief or some overwhelming sadness, but felt only a steely
calm, a numbness that filled her like a chill. If this was shock, it was
welcome. She felt like she was watching the whole scene in a movie, and
there was no fear.
“Have you caught whoever did this?” she asked Hawkins.
“There will be time for explanations later.”
“I want them now. My aunt and uncle, who were they really? Did they
work for you?”
“I can’t talk about it. I wish I could, but it would only put you in
danger.”
She laughed, something bitter in the back of her throat, and looked up
the hill. “God forbid. Aren’t I already?”
He didn’t answer.
“Why did they die?” she asked. “OSPREY? The red ledger? What is all
this?”
At that, Hawkins stiffened, and stepped closer to her. He was an
imposing presence, and something about the way he held himself—leaning
into her space, shoulders rolled forward—reawakened a hint of fear in
Rose, but she didn’t let it show.
“Please explain it to me. I don’t want to have to go to someone else.”
It was a threat, a hint of hardball. He took a deep breath and relaxed,
rubbing his forehead with his thumb and index finger like a parent trying to
deal with a tantrum.
“You have no idea how dangerous that is,” he said, his voice cold. He
stared at her, then softened slightly. “They died to keep you safe. To keep
all of us safe. That may sound like corny bullshit to you, but it’s true. They
did dangerous work, gladly, and without a shred of recognition. And all
these people”—he pointed to the darkened houses on the block, the families
sleeping inside—“are safer for the sacrifices they made, the secrets they
kept.”
The ambulance doors closed. Rose didn’t know what to say. The
adrenaline was beginning to burn off like a morning fog. She felt shaky
again, sick, exhausted. He was right. She had no idea what had just
happened, no idea what she was in the middle of.
“If it was so dangerous, why would they tell me?”
“Because they trusted you. They knew you could handle this. You could
do the right thing.” He looked back at the house she had just escaped and to
the bandage on her hand. “And they were right.”
OceanofPDF.com
18
PETER ARRIVED AT the funeral for Henry and Paulette Campbell a few
minutes before noon, slipping through the doors of Holy Trinity Church in
Georgetown. It was three days after the call.
The pews were full. He found a spot in the back, on a bench against the
wall. He caught sight of Hawkins, in a black suit like he wore most days at
work.
Farr had warned Peter to be careful about this case, and he had been
wary about coming today, being seen as meddling or overly curious.
He recognized many faces. Some had eyed him as he came in. The
church was full of the old Washington FBI hands who had known his father.
Everyone rose for the opening prayer, and the words came
automatically. The incense and candles and echoing voices brought him
back to middle school, to that dark last year of his father’s life, when his
dad started going to Mass every Sunday—which was often for him—then
Wednesdays, too, and finally every morning.
It was a surge of faith, from a man who most suspected of betraying
everything he believed in.
Peter tried to keep the memories from taking hold of him, from reliving
those days.
The scandal happened long enough ago that he had wrung much of the
pain from it. Most of the time, when he thought about it, he could handle
the facts of the case coldly, clinically.
His dad had been a section chief in FBI counterintelligence. During his
tenure, the Russians had turned one of his agents and picked up the crown
jewels: the names of the Russian embassy staff in the US who were secretly
sharing information with the FBI. It was a catastrophic breach.
The seven Russians who were working for the US were brought back to
Moscow with their families. The Kremlin and SVR—the Russian foreign
intelligence service—made a variety of excuses to get them on the planes:
commendations, reports of sick family back home. Most were brought to
Butyrka Prison and executed in basement cells.
Suspicions circled that Peter’s father had played a part in the leaks, that
he had been compromised by the Russians as well, but they were never
proven. The scandal broke in February. By November his dad was dead.
He’d always been a gregarious drinker—cocktails on the boat or wine at
dinner, staying up late telling stories with family and work colleagues—but
the stress of the investigation, or of his guilt, changed his habit into
something far darker. And one November night, he drove eighty miles an
hour into a highway divider on the Beltway, Exit 57.
He’d been drinking, but he was always drinking then. Was it an
accident? Or did he point the car straight at that barrier? There was never a
clear answer. And his guilt was never proven, never disproven. The truth
died with him.
Peter never could believe the accusations, not against the father who
had taught him his whole life to look out for other people. It was strange,
how Peter inherited the suspicions, the presumed guilt, along with his
father’s name, as if it ran in the blood.
They had a funeral for his dad, but he never really was laid to rest, not
with all those doubts still in the air. Peter had always hoped that his father
was innocent, a bystander caught up in some larger crime.
It was a long time ago, but there were moments, like now, when the past
would come at him so vividly, a stab of pain. It was like stepping on a tiny
piece of glass a month after you thought you’d swept up all the shards.
He would remember his father’s funeral, the scent of wood oil and
flowers. He never got over it, how empty that church was, how the priest’s
voice echoed off the unfilled pews.
He would see the faces of the American sources, the embassy staffers
who were executed. He would picture their children. He’d gone to
elementary school with one of them. After the Russians rounded up their
parents, the children were sent to homes, little more than prisons, in the
Russian Far East, pariahs for life.
He would be thirteen years old again, at the kitchen table before school,
careful to not scrape his fork, not to make a sound as his father read the
morning paper in silence, his eyes red, the recycling full of empty bottles.
Peter could barely recognize the father he knew, the man who went through
the crossword with him every Sunday and was never too tired to shoot a
few baskets after work.
As the Campbells’ funeral mass went on, Peter’s eyes drifted to the
wooden screens of the confessional at the side of the church.
He remembered standing beside booths like those every week near the
end, waiting for his father to finish with the priest. The questions consumed
Peter then. They still burned now: What did you do, Dad? What did you
have to confess?
The front row of mourners began to file out, and Peter stood quietly at
attention through the recessional, as Rose Larkin walked by in a simple
black dress. She moved with confidence through the middle of what was
surely an intimidating crowd of strangers: bureau division heads, special
agents in charge, justice officials.
Peter could tell she’d been crying, but there was still a brightness to her
eyes as she looked in his direction. It was impossible—they had only
spoken over the phone—but he thought for a moment that she had
recognized him.
OceanofPDF.com
19
PETER FILED OUT the door after Mass, then turned and walked toward
the Potomac, past the pockets of mourners and agents talking in small
circles outside.
He was fifty yards down from the church when someone grabbed his
shoulder.
“Sutherland, I thought that was you.”
He turned to find a friend of his from training at Quantico, standing a
little too close. Vito had always had a weird measure of personal space.
“Wild, right?” Vito said and looked toward the church. “Did you hear
anything about what went down?”
Peter shook his head.
“I heard the Campbells were CI-4, retired.”
Counterintelligence, squad 4. It was a legendary crew, spy hunters
working against the Russians on US soil. The elite.
Peter’s mouth felt dry, but he hid any reaction from Vito. His father had
overseen counterintelligence, and counterintelligence in turn had run the
investigation into the leaks that had happened on his watch, had driven all
the suspicions that he was a traitor.
Was it another Russian operation? Killing our people on US soil? The
muscles in his back tightened up and he took a deep breath in. It was anger
driving him forward. Whether his father was innocent or not, it was
ultimately a Russian intelligence operation that had brought him down, and
Peter would give anything to hit back at them.
“Who told you that?” Peter asked.
“Overheard some guys at the Washington Field Office. I didn’t even
know the FBI had people undercover like that,” he said. “I heard they came
over from the CIA. Maybe it was some old score settling.”
“Did you hear anything else?”
“No. You didn’t pick up any info from the White House folks?”
Peter wasn’t going to give up anything to Vito, especially not here.
Peter just cocked his head and gave him a come on, brother look.
“Who am I going to tell?” Vito asked.
“You just told me something, and I haven’t seen you in six months.”
“Come on, man.”
“Not happening.”
Vito shook his head and muttered, “Boy Scout.”
The burial was at Oak Hill Cemetery, a beautiful stretch of woods on the
other side of Georgetown, on a hillside above Rock Creek.
He didn’t want to draw attention to himself, so as the last mourners
streamed through the gates, he crossed the street and stood under a bare tree
in Montrose Park. It was uphill from the cemetery, and he could see the
burial through the crypts.
Rose stood in a place of honor beside the graves, but slightly apart from
the other mourners. She stood still, in silence—stoic or in shock—for the
entire ceremony, until the time came and she reached into the fresh earth
and scattered some on the caskets.
A man with bagpipes strode out from behind the chapel, and Peter
turned and started down the street. Bagpipes always wrecked him. They’d
played them at his dad’s funeral, and he didn’t particularly feel like choking
up in the middle of a Georgetown park.
He crossed the street as the piper started up, the opening bars of
“Amazing Grace.”
He proceeded slowly, letting the music fade as the graveyard
disappeared from view behind the white brick buildings. He took a
wandering route to his car. It was a blustery day, but there wasn’t a cloud in
the sky.
Still on edge, he checked the sidewalk behind him at every corner and
in every window’s reflection.
At Thirty-First Street, he picked up on the sound of someone walking
close behind him, following. He stopped fast and heard the double scuffing
noise as the pursuer stopped short.
“Peter?” A woman’s voice came from behind him. He turned.
It was Rose.
OceanofPDF.com
20
PETER’S EYES NARROWED slightly. She was breathing fast. She must
have moved quickly to catch up with him.
“I heard you, after the mass,” she said. “I recognized your voice. Was
that you on the phone? The night . . .” She nodded toward the church.
“Yes,” he said. “I’m so sorry about your aunt and uncle.”
“Thank you.”
Such an empty phrase, a rote exchange after the intensity of what had
happened on the phone, but the only words he could find were that wornout funeral script.
“Are you all right?” he asked.
“I’m managing.” She looked down for a moment, then fixed her eyes on
his.
“Can you tell me why they died?”
Peter pressed his lips into a flat line, glanced up and down the street. He
recognized a few bureau people. He stepped closer to her and lowered his
voice. “I don’t know.” It was the truth.
She shook her head, and a glimmer of anger showed. Peter had a feeling
that a lot of people had been telling her “I don’t know” that morning.
“Night action,” she said. “The red ledger. Pen. Clock. Door. Fire.”
He put his hand on her upper arm. “I know this all must be strange to
you, Rose, but you have to be careful about talking about it in the open. It
can get people hurt.”
“I’m the last person you have to tell that to. I need to know what’s going
on. I’m tired of people lying to my face.”
“I’m not lying,” Peter said. That charge, in particular, bothered him. “I
don’t know. I answer the phone and get it to the right people. I only wanted
to make sure you’re okay.”
“Okay? No. My aunt and uncle were executed, and I was nearly killed,
and now I’m under guard and no one will do me the decency of telling me
what the fuck is going on.” She checked herself, then went on, calmer now.
“They gave me your number. You must know something.”
“In the grand scheme, I’m nobody.”
“Then why are you here?”
“To pay my respects.”
“What were they doing?” She held her hands out to the side, a plea.
“What did you have them doing that got them killed?”
He didn’t answer. She stepped back and evaluated him. Her eyes
seemed to work as slowly and surely as a polygraph.
“And if you did know?”
“I wouldn’t tell you.” It wasn’t an easy answer, but it was the truth, and
Peter hated deceit.
“Why?”
“Because there are rules about it. And when they are broken . . .” He
looked to the church. All he wanted was to help her, to reassure her, to find
out who did this. But that was a dangerous impulse, stepping out of line,
taking matters into his own hands.
She moved her head slightly, back and forth, eyes fixed on him, as if
weighing a choice. She sighed in resignation, as if accepting it, then looked
over her shoulder.
“You should go,” Peter said. “Isn’t there usually . . .”
“A repast. Yes.”
“Maybe someone there, someone who knew them, can tell you more.”
“They’re all strangers. No one will talk to me. They just need me here
to stand beside the coffins, dip my head and say thank you.”
“You don’t live here?”
“No. I was staying with them.” Her face fell.
Alone at a funeral. She was breaking his heart, and he wanted to console
her, to do anything to soften the blow. But he couldn’t let emotion cloud his
judgment. Because she was sharp. She hadn’t been able to break down his
front door, so now she was slipping in through the window, playing on his
sympathy. Maybe she was trying to draw him out more slowly.
He hated that suspicion, but he had to be careful. Maybe she was just
scared and alone. He took out one of his cards and offered it to her.
“I can’t talk about work, or what’s happening, but if you ever don’t feel
safe, call me. I’ll get it to the right people. I’ll do everything I can.”
She took it.
“Peter Sutherland,” she said and tapped his title. “Nobody.”
OceanofPDF.com
21
DIMITRI PICKED HIS way through the ivy and fallen gravestones,
inspecting the dates of birth and death and the Daughters of the American
Revolution plaques. To all appearances, he was a widower or genealogy
buff, or just a man approaching the far end of middle age and taking some
time among the dead.
The gun rode on his hip, so familiar it felt like part of his body. It was
invisible under his jacket. He had sewed in thick fabric on the lining near
the holster. The added heft kept the weapon from imprinting, revealing
itself to trained watchers, and let the coat swing back with more inertia for a
smooth draw.
He had waited until after the funeral to enter the cemetery, knowing that
security would be tight. Only the most observant watcher would have
noticed Dimitri’s eyes, glancing past the headstones and the fences and the
locust trees, to fix on Rose. She cut away from the rest of the mourners, and
Dimitri followed at a distance.
He strolled down the overgrown walkway and turned left on the
sidewalk. She was moving quickly now, almost chasing someone, and he
tracked her from the other side of the street.
She called out to a man, and they began to talk. Dimitri recognized him.
It was Peter Sutherland. Dimitri’s pulse picked up, but he showed no
outward reaction.
He had seen Peter once before, on the night of the killings, loitering
near the crime scene. Finding out Peter’s identity hadn’t been difficult.
Dimitri had good sources.
He walked past them without breaking stride. His car was parked half a
block down, on their side of the street. He crossed to it, giving them plenty
of space, and then sat inside. It was a late-model Accord, with Lyft and
Uber stickers on the windshield.
The taxi cover was a good one for surveillance—sitting in cars, doubleparking, cruising at all hours of the night—but he had never been able to get
away with it in Washington, even with its motley collection of independent
cabs in the days when DC was on the zone system, not meters. The drivers
were all Ethiopian or Eritrean back then, and he would have stuck out. But
now it was easy enough. There’s nothing strange about a bland-looking
white man sitting in his ride-share car fumbling for directions while trying
to make a little money on the side.
Dimitri read the conversation in their body language: far apart—wary at
the beginning—then closer. He remembered the long-ago days when he
believed he might be able to change someone’s mind with an argument,
might be able to change someone at all.
Peter handed Rose something, and she stepped away. Henry and
Paulette Campbell had trusted Rose, spent their last living hours with her,
and she had talked to Sutherland on the emergency line. How much did she
know? And what did she pass on?
They seemed to be working together now. It confirmed his concern, and
in his mind he moved both of them from bystander to threat. The bureau
had Rose staying at a hotel in Dupont Circle, but her security wouldn’t be
an issue. It was little more than an occasional drive-by from a patrol car.
They seemed like nice kids. It really was a shame. But in the larger
scheme two lives were a small price. A secret had come to them unbidden,
like a virus, and like a virus it was indifferent to their fates.
They both knew about the red ledger, a handwritten record, evidence of
a crime that dwarfed a murder or two. It was the sort of thing that can start a
war.
The stakes. You had to keep them in mind when you had a gun in a
crying girl’s face. At least he had to at the beginning of his career. Now he
didn’t even bother with the rationale. Work was work.
He lifted the encrypted phone to his ear and called his source.
“BEECH?”
“Yes. Go ahead.”
“I just finished watching Rose Larkin rendezvous with Peter Sutherland
outside the burial.”
“Are you sure?”
That wasn’t even worth a response. “We need to draw a circle around
this before it spreads,” he said.
Henry and Paulette Campbell had the ledger. They had found witnesses.
And now Dimitri had to find everyone who knew about that book, everyone
who had worked with the Campbells, and silence them. No one could learn
the truth about the Metro crash. Peter Sutherland had been on the train that
derailed and had survived. Those deaths were just the beginning.
Dimitri needed to keep the secret for three more days, and then
everything they had worked for, all the killing would finally pay off.
“I can handle it,” BEECH replied.
“We can’t take the risk.”
“I have it under control.”
Dimitri’s eyes flicked back and forth between Peter and Rose as they
walked away from each other. He and BEECH were on the same side of this
affair, for now. They both wanted that information destroyed. But that
didn’t mean they trusted each other. The book was too powerful. No one
could be trusted with it.
“We have to find out what she knows,” BEECH went on, “and who else
she might have told. More bodies are only going to make our job harder,
bring scrutiny.”
It was a fair point, though that sort of thing had never stopped Dimitri
before. The gun ached against his hip like a restless limb. He glanced at
Peter through the windshield and at Rose walking away in the side-view
mirror.
“You have one day to find out what they know,” he said. “Unless I see
them together again.”
“Hold on.”
“One day. Then I move.” Dimitri ended the call. He didn’t like the tone
he was getting from BEECH, the imperative voice.
Dimitri pocketed the phone and looked from Rose to Peter and back.
Which one should he follow?
He knew about Peter: bright, ambitious, scrupulous about orders. He
shouldn’t be a problem if he stayed out of this, kept his head down as usual.
But Dimitri grew uneasy as he watched him move along the sidewalk. The
young man was curious, asking questions, crossing lines.
Dimitri waited for him to pass the intersection one block down and then
began the pursuit.
OceanofPDF.com
22
THE SUN SET over Foggy Bottom. Peter should have been at home,
sleeping, getting ready for his overnight shift, but instead he was strolling
through the trees alongside the South Lawn of the White House.
He had just changed into his workout clothes in the old pool house that
stood in for a locker room when they played basketball on the outdoor
court.
Peter glimpsed the columns of the executive mansion over the tops of
the maples, and as he came around the corner, he saw President Travers
walking by the hoop, a ball under his arm. This was his game.
Peter took a deep breath and stepped onto the court. Travers shot the
ball to him with a hard chest pass and a smile. He was a creature of routine
and played every Thursday and Saturday night if his schedule permitted.
Peter still hadn’t gotten used to the oddness of playing ball with
POTUS. He remembered his first game. One of the president’s personal
aides—a guy named Perry who had played for North Carolina and served as
Travers’s body man during the campaign—invited him the day before.
That night Peter spent twelve hours sitting, staring at that phone, trying
to figure out exactly how you play ball with the leader of the free world.
Word got around the Sit Room somehow. Jessica warned him not to take it
easy on POTUS. “I heard he hates that,” and the CIA watch officer, hearing
that, raised his eyebrows and made a doubtful face.
It’s hard to overestimate how intimidating the man and the place were.
Peter was no big star in college, but he had played in the NCAA
quarterfinals with eight million people watching on TV and twenty
thousand in the stands. He was used to pressure, but the first time he walked
through the entrance of the West Wing, he found his heart racing. That was
a game. This was the big show.
Travers seemed to love these evenings, a chance to cut through the
layers of bureaucracy that cocooned him as the head of a four-hundredthousand-person enterprise, to drop his guard with some of the younger
staffers.
He had been a walk-on guard at Indiana University, and he was still
good, still worked out for an hour every night.
The president had spent most of his twenties doing missionary work in
Central America: no TV, too dangerous to leave the compound, so they
would just play basketball eight hours a day.
His habit of getting together pickup games at the White House and on
the campaign trail fit in with his Hoosier-farm-boy-made-good image.
Travers’s father had started a string of outdoor retailers in the Midwest, and
Travers and his brothers had expanded them into a holding company that
turned around businesses—unglamorous Middle American manufacturers
and industrial firms. He had quietly established himself as a financial sage,
a low-profile Warren Buffett.
A consistent political donor, he had done a brief turn as US Trade
Representative, where he hammered out a US-China trade pact that won
him a lot of respect inside the Beltway. He had essentially been drafted to
run for president, an outsider candidate without a lot of partisan baggage
who would have a broad appeal in the general election.
No one thought Travers would survive the primaries, but sharp,
understated performances at the debates brought him to the head of the pack
of contenders that spent most of their time trying to shiv each other.
He won the nomination. The election was a wide-open race on both
sides to replace a two-term president from the other party. His opponent
was a former secretary of Homeland Security, a no-bullshit Oklahoman
named Anne Gibson.
As the general election approached, a series of financial scandals hurt
her team, and Travers’s plainspoken propriety cinched the presidency.
Diane Farr, who ultimately became his chief of staff, was the first party
stalwart to see his appeal and rally the rest of her camp around him. She,
too, had an independent streak and had cycled between posts in politics,
mostly behind-the-scenes work and general counsel posts for major
American multinationals. She emerged as a key advisor, navigating deftly
to guarantee Travers some independence from the party and Hill lifers
while still maintaining their support. It was natural that he chose her as
chief of staff—selfless, lived for the job, an honest broker who could keep
everyone happy and all the trains running on time.
Peter liked watching them work together, perfectly in sync, yet still
keeping a bit of the shtick where Travers was the country boy and Farr the
foul-mouthed boardroom bruiser.
On the court in that first game, Peter started out easy, taking his time to
get a read on just how hard they were playing. He ended up covering
Travers. The guy was relentless, physical, driving, never stopping to talk or
catch a breath. That made it pretty clear that he wanted a real game, and
Peter gave it to him.
Most power forwards were six foot eight or more, but Peter made up for
his relatively small size in Division I by being ferocious near the net. That’s
how he got the nickname Bear.
After two years at the end of the bench, Peter had been put into a key
game, the coach calling his name in desperation after four other players had
been ejected. In the final minutes, he hit one clutch shot after another,
surprising everyone, himself included. Two days later he had earned a spot
as a starter.
Basketball had always been a release for him, a place where he could let
his guard down. People barely recognized him on the court.
He went hard in his first game with Travers. The familiar terrain and the
sheer straightforwardness of it—doing something he was good at, out in the
fresh air—made Peter forget himself, forget the hollowed-out feeling from
the graveyard shift, forget being careful. He moved through the key, and the
president set a hard pick, but as Peter rolled to one side, Travers lunged to
cover him. Peter’s elbow caught POTUS in the lip, and he went down. It
was Travers’s fault, but for a second it felt like there was no oxygen in the
atmosphere. The Secret Service moved in on the court, and Peter wondered
if he was going to jail.
He held his hand out to Travers, who pressed the back of his hand to his
lip and came away with a dab of blood.
“I’m good,” Travers said, calling off the Secret Service agents. Peter
helped him to his feet. “I’m glad they didn’t shoot you,” the president said,
beaming, clapped him on the back, and offered him the ball.
The deal with that kind of proximity, of course, was that you were an
outlet, a way for the president to feel connected to the staff on a personal
level and to put politics aside for a moment. A lot of young Washington
strivers couldn’t see that. They got near the commander in chief, and once
they pulled their heart out of their trachea enough to talk, their ambition got
in the way.
Once, while warming up, a Senate staffer had started in on something
about FAA regulations and noise complaints in a home district. The whole
crew went silent, almost wincing at the kid’s misstep.
“Why don’t we play ball?” the president said. That may not sound like
much, but getting even a shade of disappointment from POTUS was
devastating.
Peter never saw that kid on the court again.
Tonight, despite the lack of sleep, Peter found his rhythm by the fourth
point, looking for holes in the defense, left, then back right, faking a drive
and then dropping back with a fadeaway jumper just outside the paint. It
arced high, past the White House facade in the background and came down
with a whisper, touching only net.
The call, the killings, the funeral: it had dredged up a lot from Peter’s
past. But now, with the cool air burning nicely in his lungs, he was glad for
the game. The court had always been a place where he could lose himself.
On the next point, the president boxed Peter out, then pivoted left and
bounce passed the basketball to Perry. Perry pushed through two defenders
and sank an easy layup.
Peter got the ball, rolled left, and found, where there hadn’t seemed to
be one, a clear line to the basket. He accelerated, so quickly it looked like
he was shot out of a cannon, and was four feet from the hoop when the
president came around the point guard, sprinting to defend Peter. Peter
jumped and finger rolled the ball into the net.
He wanted to dunk. He could have dunked. Dunking has been one of his
favorite things in the world, ever since he was fifteen and saw White Men
Can’t Jump and then spent the entire summer practicing until he had it
down.
But you don’t dunk on POTUS.
The president eyed the shot, and maybe he knew what Peter was
thinking.
“Nice,” Travers said, with a sly smile.
OceanofPDF.com
23
AFTER HE SHOWERED and changed, Peter headed in for his shift. He
walked straight down the West Wing hallway toward the Sit Room stairs,
and past Diane Farr. She didn’t seem to notice him as she strode by. She
was flicking through her iPhone while somehow managing to have a
conversation with an aide who was also staring at a phone. Peter was five
feet beyond Farr when he heard her call out.
“Stick around here for a minute, Peter. Hawkins is looking for you. Did
not seem happy.” She shrugged and returned to her emails.
Peter checked his phone and saw the message from Hawkins, one line:
“See me when you come in.” He turned down the hall and walked toward
Hawkins’s office.
He was just outside the doorway when he heard the deep voice: “You
went to the Campbells’ house the night of the murders?”
Peter stopped. Hawkins was already in close, behind him. Peter
expected to be ushered into the office, but apparently Hawkins decided this
would be a good conversation for the hallway, a public dressing-down. He
had a way of looking amused when he was angry, the kind of face that
accompanies the phrase you know you’re a real piece of work. He was
wearing it now.
“Yes.”
“And you were told to stay away from this.”
“I was.”
“Do you want to tell me why you were skulking outside the funeral this
morning and harassing a woman whose aunt and uncle were just killed, a
woman you were expressly warned to stay away from?”
“I went to the funeral to pay my respects. She recognized me . . . my
voice. She approached me.”
“And what did you tell her?”
“Nothing. And I told her there was nothing I could tell her. And she
more or less told me to go to hell.”
“What did the girl tell you?”
“Nothing.”
“People saw you talking. You can’t sneak around two hundred fucking
FBI agents without getting noticed.”
“She was upset that no one would tell her why her aunt and uncle died.
She wanted to know what was going on. I didn’t know and I said as much.”
Hawkins’s mouth drew tight. There was nothing worse, when you were
about to lay into someone, than finding out you were wrong. Peter
wondered if it would make any difference.
“Sit down there. Answer the phone. Go home. Get some sleep. That’s it.
Can you handle that? You are the last person on earth who should be acting
shady. I don’t even know how you got cleared to be here.”
He shook his head and disappeared into his office. Peter glanced down
the hallway, past the open doors and assistants’ desks, where eavesdropping
without letting on that you are listening is a fine art. At the far end of the
hall, he saw Theo, the guy he had tangled with at the happy hour, beaming.
That was why he had to be so careful. Even the perception of
mishandling classified information could destroy someone. He’d seen it
with his dad.
Peter stalked back to the stairs and found Farr waiting for him.
“Did you talk to her?” she asked.
“Yes. But I did nothing wrong.”
“Sometimes that doesn’t matter.”
Peter put his hand on the banister. “What am I in the middle of, Diane?
What were the Campbells working on? Why is this all outside of the normal
channels?”
“Peter—”
“The Campbells said whatever was happening would happen in six
days. That’s three days from now.”
“I can’t talk about that, Peter.”
“Is Russia part of it?”
She lowered her voice to a stern whisper. “You know I took a risk with
you. Don’t make this personal. You, especially, need to be careful. That
conversation may have been innocent, but that’s how these things start, one
foot over the line.”
I’m not my father, Peter thought. But she was right. He had no idea what
had started his father down the wrong path, how harmless it might have
seemed at the beginning.
“You should get to work,” she said.
OceanofPDF.com
24
PETER ENTERED THE Sit Room, cut right after the door, and made it to
his desk without drawing the attention of the other officers on the watch. He
pulled up his files. The sources scrolled by his screen. The phone sat in
silence on his desk.
It was a long empty night on little sleep, and as much as he tried, he
couldn’t keep his head clear, couldn’t stop thinking about that sideways
accusation that he, like his father, couldn’t be trusted.
It took him years to get hired by the FBI, and he could only manage a
support role, as a surveillance specialist in the Boston Field Office. It was
often a stepping-stone to becoming a special agent, but his colleagues told
him not to bother, warned him that the senior people at the FBI would never
trust him because of his dad, that he would be stuck in a support gig in
Boston for the rest of his life.
They were right. He applied for special agent every time the window
opened, twice a year, and every other job that might move him up. He had
been up for an intelligence analyst spot in DC and made it to the second
round, but the answer always came back no.
He loved the dark humor of the ex-cops and soldiers on the surveillance
crews in Boston, the pride in handling even the worst details. There were a
lot of miserable nights, his back wrecked from fourteen hours crammed in a
midsize car, peeing into Gatorade bottles, but he didn’t mind the work. At
least he wasn’t behind a desk. He was out on the streets, looking for bad
guys and protecting witnesses.
The others called him Giraffe and gave him shit endlessly. It was a good
joke: a six six guy trying to be inconspicuous. One supervisor, who couldn’t
stand having Peter around, would send him to Chinatown on foot
surveillance with helpful instructions: “Blend in.” He was good:
meticulous, disciplined, never complained. He learned to be invisible, to see
without being seen, and lived up to the nickname people sometimes used
for the special surveillance group: the ghosts.
Farr had taken a chance on him by bringing him to Washington. He first
met her when he was a junior at Boston College. He ran a summer
basketball camp for low-income high school kids. Farr was a BC trustee,
and he had talked to her a handful of times at some of the community
outreach events and photo ops.
That’s why he was surprised when he got an email from Farr a few
weeks after Travers was elected, asking him out to lunch in the North End
while she was in town for a trustees meeting. They met at an Italian hole-inthe-wall, a place that made its own ricotta and served the best lasagna Peter
had ever tasted, but the last spot you’d expect for a high-powered political
meeting. Maybe that was the point.
She told him that an intelligence chief at the bureau had asked her about
Peter after he applied for the analyst position and wanted to find out if she
knew him from her time as a trustee. She recommended Peter for the job,
but it went nowhere. When she asked why, she was told it was because he
was Thomas Sutherland’s kid.
“Do you have anyone looking out for you?” she asked Peter. “What do
they call them at the bureau, a rabbi?”
She was talking about a mentor, someone with juice who paved your
way. It meant picking sides, doing favors, sucking up, playing politics.
Because of who his father was, Peter couldn’t play the game like that, nor
did he want to. Everyone was always looking for some sign of him being on
the make, of bending the rules, some taint of his father’s sins. Peter just put
his head down and did everything by the book, worked twice as hard
hoping that it would be enough.
“I don’t,” he said.
“Your father’s friends? People you knew from growing up? There’s no
one you can ask for a favor?”
“I left a lot of that behind in DC.”
She nodded, and he wondered if she was waiting for him to ask her for a
boost, if this was some kind of test. It didn’t matter. That’s not how he did
things.
“I looked over your file, Peter. Your background check, your work in
Boston. I couldn’t even find a sick day, a late arrival. Most people at least
have a couple of youthful indiscretions, but this . . . it’s . . . almost Mormon.
It’s the record of someone who spent his whole life trying to work for the
bureau. It’s perfect.”
There were pieces missing from that record. He’d been a sixteen-yearold kid with no father, already six foot and one eighty, confused and
resentful and shut out. He scrapped. The anger got the best of him
sometimes. A chain-smoking basketball coach named Mr. Welsh saved him,
channeled that ferocity into the game. The endless practice and predawn
conditioning taught Peter discipline and control. He didn’t know where he
would’ve ended up without it. He didn’t like to think about it.
He pushed back his chair and looked at Farr. He knew what was
coming. With all that scrutiny on him because of his dad, he couldn’t afford
a single mistake. But when he played everything perfectly by the book,
people assumed that it was some kind of cover, some way for him to worm
his way back into the heart of the FBI like his father had, like a cancer.
They’d never give him any real responsibility.
“Peter.” She put her fork down. “The people at headquarters, they don’t
want you. You’re going to have a hard time moving up.”
He knew that. He’d heard the cracks when he was at Quantico for his
training, seen the look on his interviewers’ faces at headquarters every time
he tried to climb a rung. The FBI is a family business; most special agents
had a parent or close relative who worked there, too. It helped build trust,
but family ties worked against him.
His fiancée would tell him the same thing, on those long-distance calls
full of silences. He didn’t blame her for it. They got together in college,
track star and power forward, the perfect couple, and then he nuked his
finance career to make forty-five grand a year as a G and at a moment’s
notice spend his nights and weekends in the saddest shitholes of New
England.
Leah was good enough not to ask him why he was throwing himself
against this brick wall, trying to make up for what his father had done,
trying to work himself into a place where one day he’d be able to prove he
was innocent. Or maybe he was getting revenge on the old man by taking
down everyone who thought the rules didn’t apply to him.
He didn’t know. It could have been all three.
“You still want to try to make a career at the FBI?” Farr asked.
“I do.”
“I read about what you did during the Metro crash.”
Peter had helped the people on his car escape, forcing the emergency
exit and guiding them out. The Post featured him prominently in an article
about the crash, trying to find a positive note in the midst of an accident that
killed twenty-one people. Peter could think only of the ones he couldn’t
save, trapped deep in the Metro tunnels. Their cries for help still haunted
him.
“We need people like that,” Farr said. “I’m going to be chief of staff
now, and I’ll have a lot of sway. I might have something opening up,” she
said. “It’s nothing glamorous. What do you call them at the bureau—a night
agent? We need phone coverage, graveyards and weekends.”
Night agents held down the fort at local field offices while everyone
else slept. Often for a first posting, the FBI would farm you out to the
middle of nowhere, a place like Tulsa or Albuquerque, but that was part of
the job. It would still be a step up.
“I’m interested,” Peter said.
“We’re trying to figure out where we would park you. It might be the
Situation Room.”
“The White House?” Peter asked.
“Yes. But you wouldn’t be a full watch officer, more of a backbench
thing covering phones and open-source intel as needed.”
She was almost apologetic. Peter couldn’t believe it. He’d been trying to
prove himself for years, to earn that kind of trust.
“I stay with the bureau?”
“If you want. We can detail you over to the West Wing. It would be
night action calls to me or James Hawkins, the senior advisor.”
“The FBI higher-ups would be all right with that?”
“It’s in the White House; it’s my call. I can make it work with the
bureau. I understand if you need some time to think about it.”
It was all he wanted, and still he hesitated. It meant going back to
Washington, to where this all started, to the work that had destroyed his
father. It meant being tested.
Peter rested his hands on the table. “When do I start?”
OceanofPDF.com
25
AFTER HIS SHIFT wrapped up early the next morning, Peter stepped
through the southwest gate, squinting against the dawn light. He felt like a
walking cadaver, working his way up Seventeenth Street, as all the freshfrom-bed West Wingers streamed by in the opposite direction.
He went home, still fuming about getting called out in the middle of the
office. There was laundry to do and emails to send—his godfather had
moved back to town and they’d been trying to get together for months—but
as he stepped inside his door, all he could think about was sleep.
He lay down. The buses rattled by, and the fire trucks tore up the street,
sirens blaring, but Peter drifted off before he’d even had a chance to put his
earplugs in.
He slept like a dead man until two P.M., when his cell phone started
rattling on the nightstand.
He didn’t recognize the number: 310 area code. Los Angeles, he
thought, or maybe Orange County.
“Hello?”
No answer.
He squinted at the screen, his eyes still heavy with sleep.
“1 missed call.”
He put the phone down and swung his feet over the side of the bed. It
rattled again, a short buzz.
“1 voicemail.”
He held it to his ear.
“Peter. Hi. This is Rose, from yesterday. I wanted to thank you for the
other night. I should have before. And listen . . . could you call me when
you get this? I’m probably crazy, but there were supposed to be people here
watching out for me, and they’re gone, and I think I’ve seen someone
hanging around outside. Okay . . . bye.”
He sat on the edge of the bed, holding the phone in front of him. The
orders were clear enough. Leave it alone. He’d been warned, for his own
sake, not to take matters into his own hands.
But something wasn’t right, and she needed help. He remembered
watching Hawkins argue with her, the night the Campbells died. He looked
so angry. Peter didn’t know what was happening, but he couldn’t stand to
do nothing. Before he had time to second-guess himself, he hit dial and
pressed the phone to his ear as it rang.
OceanofPDF.com
26
PETER STEPPED INTO the lobby of Rose’s hotel. It was a flatiron
building just north of Dupont Circle, and the last time Peter had been there
it had been a dingy place, with an Irish pub occupying the prime views on
the circle.
Now it was passing itself off as some kind of Euro lounge. There were
lots of guys in suits, but none sporting an obvious law-enforcement haircut
or build or bearing.
He walked faster. There should have been protective surveillance up on
Rose. When he called her back, she told him there was no one. Her guard
was gone.
The elevator opened on the third floor, and Peter stepped out and found
room 304. He tapped his knuckles on the door three times. Footsteps
shuffled inside, and the peephole went dark. He waited. The door opened a
crack.
“Thanks for coming,” Rose said. She was wearing a hooded sweatshirt,
her hair held back loosely at her neck.
“Of course.”
“Did you see anyone down there?”
“No. If you’re worried about your safety, I’ll help you get in touch with
whoever is handling the investigation.”
Peter had encouraged her to do the same thing on the phone, but she
wouldn’t go for it.
“I don’t want to talk to them. And I . . . I didn’t feel like being by
myself anymore.” She pursed her lips, as if that had come out wrong, too
unguarded. She might have been used to men reading into everything she
said, looking for an invitation. Peter didn’t.
She stepped into the hallway and scanned in both directions.
“Was someone following you?” he asked.
“I thought I saw someone, but I don’t know for sure. Every time I
looked, he seemed to disappear.” She crossed her arms. “I feel like I’m
going crazy.”
“Rose, I’m happy to help you, or just hang out if you don’t have anyone
else in the city. What you’ve been through . . . no one should have to go
through anything like that alone. But I want to be straight with you, I don’t
know anything about this case, and I couldn’t talk about it if I did.”
“I’m not working an angle. I just . . .”
Peter raised his hand, as if waving it away. “I’m not saying you are. But
I had to get that out there.”
A housekeeper backed a cart toward them. Standing in the hallway was
starting to feel awkward, but she hadn’t invited him in, and he wasn’t going
to ask. Maybe she was rethinking trusting a total stranger based on that first
five-minute conversation, however intense. He offered her an easy out.
“Have you eaten?”
“I’m not hungry, but I’d love to get out of here. I’ve been pent up all
day.”
“Let’s take a walk.”
She tilted her head up, and he knew she was measuring him, wondering
if he was enough to stand between her and whatever threat was waiting. She
smiled. “That would be great.”
They went downstairs, and Peter’s eyes searched everyone in the lobby.
Again, he noticed no security nor any surveillance, friend or foe. If
someone was watching her, or following her, he was good, able to blend in
completely.
They started walking through Dupont Circle and passed a white
mansion, one of the old private clubs. The area around Dupont was dotted
with embassies and chanceries. Peter and Rose passed Egypt, and then Iraq.
Embassy Row was a strange place, with its high walls and barred windows
and black cars coming and going. You could have two states locked in a
deadly border conflict overseas sharing a manicured hedge on
Massachusetts Avenue.
They worked their way back past Dupont. Peter could have broken up
the silence, but it was an oddly comfortable one. It seemed like they’d
blown past the bullshit small talk phase the night her aunt and uncle were
killed. The only thing they wanted to discuss, both of them, desperately,
was off-limits: What the hell were they in the middle of?
As they climbed the hill past Adams Elementary School, she glanced
over her shoulder. Peter stopped and looked down the slope, paying
particular attention to the last intersection that they had passed.
“Did you see someone?” he asked.
“How would I know?”
“With professionals, you probably wouldn’t.”
“You have a lot of experience with it?”
“I used to be on a surveillance team.”
“How does it work?” She was still glancing behind her as they walked.
She needed something to give her confidence, to help her cut through what
was real fear and what was imagined.
“We always learned with at least three people doing foot surveillance.
A, B, and C. A is right behind the target, B farther back, and C on the
opposite side of the street. They rotate, and at every intersection, A signals
to the others which way the subject is going, and then B or C swaps in for A
and on you go.”
They were standing at the corner of Columbia and Eighteenth Street, the
top of Adams Morgan, an intersection jammed with bikes and pedestrians
and cars trying to work their way around them in the crosswalks.
“Can you do it with two?”
“If you need to, but it’s harder.”
She watched the crowds flow by, a messenger on a fixed-gear bike, a
woman pushing a stroller, a woman in glasses with a laptop under her arm,
making her way down to the coffee shop where all the work-from-home
people camped out.
The fear had gone out of Rose’s face, replaced by eagerness as she
scanned the sidewalks.
“Show me how you do it,” she said. She wanted to learn to tail. She
wanted to be the hunter for a moment.
“You’re sure?” Peter asked.
“Yes.”
It made sense. The only way he had learned to pick up surveillance was
by doing it himself.
Diagonally across the intersection from them, a man stood wearing a
pair of blue over-the-ear headphones. He was over six feet and must have
weighed at least two hundred and fifty pounds.
“How about that guy in headphones?” Peter said.
“The big one?”
“That’s our rabbit.” He was just a random civilian, but he was
distinctive, a good way to learn.
“So how do we do it?” Rose asked.
“I’ll start in B; you’re A. Stay close but not closer than, say, fifty feet.
When he turns at an intersection, signal to me which way he went, and then
we’ll switch.” Peter let his hand fall naturally to his hip and then tapped it.
“Left hand if he goes left, right hand if he goes right.”
“Got it.”
“Are you sure you want to do this?”
She didn’t even look at him. Her eyes were fixed on the rabbit. “Isn’t it
too easy with the headphones?”
“It’ll be a good way to start.”
OceanofPDF.com
27
THE MAN IN headphones started up Columbia Road, and Rose took off
behind him. Peter let her get ahead by half a block, and once she passed a
taco shop, he took up the B position.
Normally, first-time trackers act strangely, showing their nerves. They
keep their arms too still and walk with too much determination. But Rose
moved with ease, blending in among the other pedestrians as they neared
Sixteenth Street.
Peter sped up, closing the gap to get ready for a potential switch. He had
lost sight of the rabbit, but that was fine.
Rose stood across the street, waiting between two mothers with
strollers, her hand resting on her right thigh. Peter looked in that direction,
up Sixteenth, nodded to her, and crossed over. She smiled but didn’t hold
eye contact for any longer than was strictly necessary.
This is what she wanted: some semblance of control, of familiarity with
the dangerous world into which she had been thrust. She was enjoying
herself, forgetting the grief and fear for a moment.
Peter kept his pace up, not so fast as to stand out, but close enough to
keep eyes on the subject as the sidewalks grew more crowded. After
another block, the man turned right down a side street to the east. Peter
crossed and signaled, and Rose picked up the A spot once again.
There were more people here, outside the Columbia Heights Metro
station and a three-story mall. It would be hard terrain even for an
experienced tracker. Peter looked over the crowd: corner guys sitting on
buckets, Salvadoran ladies selling fresh fruit, commuters and shoppers.
When Rose glanced back, Peter held his hands in front of him and brought
them closer together, indicating to Rose that she should close the gap. She
got it and hurried on. Out of the corner of his eye, Peter saw the blue
headphones disappear. The rabbit had taken them off.
Peter never let Rose out of his sight and watched her standing at the
corner of Columbia and Fourteenth Street. Her natural cool was starting to
fray as she scanned the streets around her. She had lost the rabbit. Peter
crossed toward her.
“He took the headphones off,” she said.
“You did really well.”
Rose craned her neck around. She wasn’t giving up. Peter had been
trying to make it easy on her with the headphones. But focusing on an
easily trackable object like that can be tricky if it disappears. He’d even
heard of targets exploiting the phenomenon: wearing a red hat or a bright
windbreaker to make the pursuers complacent, thinking that it would be an
easy tail, and then losing them by ditching the object.
“It’s tough here,” he said and pointed to the crowd. “Maybe he told you
where he was going, without you realizing it. Do you remember what he
was wearing?”
Rose frowned, trying to recall. “Black jeans . . . no . . . dress pants. And
a windbreaker or shell, light blue, maybe Patagonia.”
At Quantico, instructors were always quizzing them. They would have
somebody walk into class, hand the teacher an envelope, and leave.
Teachers would then ask the auditorium full of relentlessly eager-to-please
trainees what the person was wearing, what color his hair was, his eyes,
whether he was wearing glasses.
The first few tries were mortifying. People would swear that it had been
a white guy in a blue sweater wearing glasses, only to find they were 100
percent wrong. The fact was—and this made surveillance work so much
easier for trackers—people walk the same ruts every day, with tunnel
vision, blind to the world around them. By the end of his time as a G, those
observations had become automatic, and Peter would silently record
everyone who passed without even thinking of it.
Rose was right about the description, though they were black jeans.
That sort of recall and observation was excellent for someone who wasn’t
trained.
“He had a tote bag too, right?” she said.
Peter nodded. “Did you see something folded up in there?”
“Yes.” It was the bag that he’d put the headphones into. He thought
there was a magazine or circular or USA Today sticking out.
“Reusable bags. Folded up inside that tote. Is there a fee for plastic bags
when you shop here?”
“Five cents,” Peter said. They could have been shopping bags.
Rose shook her head. “I would say he was going to the grocery store,
but we walked right past one.”
She studied the signs on the mall—Target, Best Buy, Marshalls.
“There’s a Giant right around the corner,” Peter said. It was on their side
of the street.
“What if he lives around here? He threw something in the trash when
we first saw him. So maybe he’s hungry. He goes down to Adams Morgan
to grab a quick bite, pizza or something, and then stops at the grocery store
near his house to stock up.”
“Sounds good to me,” Peter said. Rose was already heading toward
Giant. He followed her through the crowds and slipped in past the
automatic doors behind her. He had always loved the rush of working a tail
and could see it had hooked Rose, too.
She walked across the front of the store, checking down each row, not
looking too out of the ordinary, as if she were searching for an item in an
unfamiliar market.
At the far end, she hit produce and circled the edge of the store, past the
dairy and the meats and the breads, but there was still no sign of him. She
stopped at the rear of the store, near the bulk food bins.
“Did they look like bags to you?” Rose asked.
“I thought it was a magazine or circular at first.”
“Maybe I’m just imagining things.” She put her hands on her hips and
suddenly looked downcast. “I mean, how do you lose track of an enormous
dude in blue headphones with a baby face and a tote bag?”
Peter’s eyes opened wide, but he fought the urge to look to his left. Rose
did look, and her mouth fell open. Headphones man was staring at them, a
package of pork chops in his hand, and on his face a look that said who the
fuck are you people?
Rose was already stepping backward and turning, her hand closing on
Peter’s wrist, drawing him down the aisle and away from the stunned man.
The embarrassment had turned into punchiness by the time they reached
produce.
“Burned, we’re burned,” Rose whispered, and Peter laughed along with
her. Blue Headphones disappeared around the end of the aisle, and Peter
kept an eye out. They walked to the far end of the section and peeked
around to see their target heading for the self-checkout machines, still
casting suspicious glances around the front of the store.
“Hang on a sec,” Peter said. “He’s checking out. We’re fine. Good eye!”
Rose hugged him from the side. She looked up at him and laughed
again, pulling away as she watched the man in headphones walk away
through the windows at the front of the store.
Rose lifted a bunch of grapes and examined them. She twisted one off
and popped it in her mouth.
Peter watched her out of the corners of his eyes. She twisted off another
and held it out to him, but he declined. She looked at him curiously.
“What is it? These? I didn’t have lunch. Relax; I’m going to pay for
them.” She glanced down at the fruit. “Are you worried about the one I ate,
the weight?”
She took a few steps toward a produce display and asked a kid stocking
apples, “Is it cool if I try a grape before I buy them?”
He shrugged. “I don’t think anybody cares.”
Rose turned to Peter, but he still wasn’t satisfied, and the giddiness of
their successful pursuit started to evaporate.
“Ready?” she asked, gesturing with her head toward the self-checkout.
She put the grapes down on the scale of the register, then smiled at Peter.
Her thumb was on the scale, adding weight.
“There you go,” he said.
OceanofPDF.com
28
THEY EXITED ONTO Fourteenth Street and headed south. Rose offered
the bunch of grapes to Peter, and he picked one off.
“You have a good read on people,” he said as they turned onto
Columbia Road.
“I used to work retail in LA, boutique-y stuff, perfume and jewelry. It’s
awful; half of it is profiling people and playing on their psychology, their
needs.”
“What do you do now?”
“Investor relations most recently, then I had a startup in LA. It’s the
same thing, but you’re selling yourself, really.”
Peter nodded, impressed. The people he knew who had stayed on in
finance and successfully exited a startup now seemed to spend most of their
time cultivating expensive hobbies.
“Not like that,” she said. “It blew up in my face.”
“What do they say? ‘Fail quickly’?”
“Fail early, fail fast, fail often. That’s mostly bullshit. But this wasn’t an
idea that needed shaking out. It would have worked.”
“What was it?”
“Loans to small businesses. Streamline it and take the pain out of it. I
had a deal all set, and when we went to close in New York one of my
funders, my main guy, tried to have . . . investor relations with me.” She
raised an eyebrow.
“I see. And you—”
“Ultimately told him to fuck himself. After many, many subtler
attempts. I was friends with his wife. The whole thing was awful. How did
you get in the rescuing damsels business?”
“You rescued yourself, getting out of there and getting to a phone.”
“I know. It was a joke.”
“Oh.” Peter took another grape. “Sure. I had a family background in law
enforcement. It’s pretty straightforward. You get to help people, stop bad
guys. It’s never really that simple, I know, but it’s good work.”
Rose was silent for a moment. They were now cruising down the
sidewalk next to Meridian Hill Park.
“Straightforward, hmm? It’s funny, the thing with the grapes back there.
You don’t seem uptight, but that really bothered you.”
She narrowed her eyes slightly, appraising him in a way that Peter
hated. He knew why it had bothered him, the little theft, and more than that
the attitude of not caring or letting things slide. Sometimes he got sick of
having to follow every bureaucratic rule to the letter, but he was still a
stickler for basic honesty.
He knew it was crazy, how that kind of thing always made the muscles
around his spine tighten up: casualness about cutting corners, about
cheating. It was through those thousand small compromises that the agent
working for his dad got away with treason for so long. They all seem so
small until someone ends up dead.
“What’s your angle?”
“Sorry?” Peter asked.
“Are you supposed to be here? You didn’t want to get involved
yesterday. Or couldn’t.”
“You asked me for help.”
“Simple as that?”
“Yes.” It wasn’t so simple, of course. He was out on a limb no matter
how carefully he played this. But when she asked for his help, he really had
no choice, though he didn’t feel like getting into the reasons why with her,
or even examining them too closely himself.
Rose was shrewd, zeroing in on his weak points, sketching out his
psychology. Peter began to wonder how much all of this was an act: her
playing that she needed help in order to get him close, to draw out the
answers she sought.
It made him wary, of course, but it only added to his curiosity about her.
“So, what can I look out for? For people following?” she asked,
changing the subject. Maybe she had picked up on his reaction.
“It’s hard to make out a good tail. The FBI will use twenty or thirty
people for a proper job, with six trackers cycling through. Look out for
people carrying packages or backpacks, because the pursuers will often
have to switch out clothes. Forget about paying attention to hats and jackets,
they’re too easy to change, but shoes and pants and skirts are good cues.
They need communications, but radios and talking into your wrist really
stand out, so the best bet is something like the white earbuds that come with
an iPhone. They have mics and are inconspicuous.”
She stopped and looked down, thinking through something.
“Back at the corner,” she said. “I thought I saw the man who was
following me, across the street. He was a hundred yards behind us.”
“What did he look like?” Peter said, not turning.
“Middle-aged, average height, brown hair, navy suit.”
“Did anything in particular stand out?”
“No. That was what was so strange. He looked almost . . . generic.”
“That could be eighty percent of the guys working in Washington.”
“Which is why I think I’m seeing him everywhere?”
“It’s a possibility. Once you start thinking about this stuff, you see
threats all over the place. It’s happened to me, too. Have you been
sleeping?”
“Not really. Whenever I shut my eyes I am back . . . back there.”
The house. The closet. He put his hand on her shoulder, and his eyes
covered the street on both sides behind them.
“I don’t see anyone.”
She pursed her lips. “Thanks.”
They continued talking about small things—details of tradecraft, the
things she noticed while practicing surveillance—until they reached the
hotel and crossed the lobby to the elevators. He walked her to her door, and
she dipped her key card and cracked it open a few inches.
After one step inside, she paused.
“Are you okay by yourself?” he asked.
“I think so.”
He wasn’t sure when or if he would see her again, and there was one
question he wanted to ask. It had been troubling him the entire time.
“Rose?”
“Yes.”
“Why do you trust me? Why didn’t you want to talk to the other FBI
people?”
She lifted her shoulders. “I don’t know.”
“Did your aunt and uncle give you anything? Or tell you anything else?
Anything that might give someone a reason to be after you?”
“Just what I told you.”
“Did you hear them talk about anything strange that night?”
She smirked and shook her head. “Take without giving.”
“What?”
“You gave me this whole song and dance about how you can’t talk
about what happened, and now you’re pumping me for information.”
It was fair. He was in the dark as much as she was, and over the course
of their time together, he had forgotten the rules he was normally so careful
about.
“You’re just like the others,” she said. “Was this all to get me to confide
in you?”
“Like who?”
She stepped farther inside and turned, one hand on the door.
“Thanks for coming out, Peter. It was kind of you. I’m going to get
some sleep now, okay?”
There was an iciness to it, a dismissal.
“You sure you’re okay?”
She nodded and shut the door.
OceanofPDF.com
29
PETER LEFT. He walked six blocks before he turned around, went back
to the hotel, and took the elevator to the third floor.
Ten minutes had passed, but as he knocked on the door, Rose answered
quickly, as if she’d been expecting him.
“Hey,” she said and brushed her hair back. “Listen. I might have
overreacted there. I really appreciate the help. You want to come in? I was
making some tea.”
“Sure,” Peter said. He looked up and down the hallway, and stepped in.
What had brought him back, turned him around on the P Street sidewalk?
He looked almost . . . generic. The line had stayed with him, troubled
him.
Rose smiled at Peter, shut the door behind them, and locked it.
“Huh,” she said, then turned the handle and opened the door.
Peter watched. Normally opening the inside door handle pulls back the
dead bolt with an electromagnetic clunk. But there was no sound. The lock
was dead.
She looked at him, and he raised his finger, then leaned out and scanned
the hotel hallway. Standing just inside the open door of her room, he tested
the key card in the lock. Nothing. Anyone could have gotten in.
“What’s happening?” she asked.
“The locks are down.”
Before she could respond, a light at the end of the hallway went dark,
then another. The rest blacked out in quick succession, closer and closer.
The overhead light in the room cut out, plunging them into darkness.
“God, Peter,” she whispered. “The same thing happened that night.”
He took her hand, already trembling, and brought her to his side. Time
seemed to slow down, and every sound sharpened.
The fear made his legs feel heavy. Part of him wanted to freeze, but
there was something else happening, a rush priming his muscles, driving
him forward to close in on whoever was coming.
He was looking for a man. That’s what had turned him around on the
street and brought him back to Rose. When he exited the hotel ten minutes
ago, Peter caught a figure at the edge of his vision.
It was what he hadn’t noticed that had raised his suspicions. The man
seemed to disappear into the background like a blank space moving through
the city.
Peter tried the light switches just inside the door, but they were all dead.
Rose took a step back into the room, but Peter didn’t want to get cornered,
so he led her the other way, into the dark hall, turning right toward the
stairs.
His eyes hadn’t adjusted, and he jammed his finger reaching for the
wall, finding it closer than anticipated. He moved toward the faint red glow
ahead, where the hallway turned. It was an exit sign, just out of view.
Cold, warm, cold: his fingertips ran over the cheap wallpaper and the
steel hotel doors as they raced toward the exit. He kept his breath even
despite the escalating tempo of his heartbeat—a wash in his ears and the
hollow of his throat.
Scuff scuff—footsteps on the carpet. Someone else was here, was close.
Without thinking, he stepped ahead of Rose and kept himself between her
and the threat.
The first touch came just as he was able to make out the silhouette in
red. A hard edge, maybe the side of a hand, slammed into his throat, and he
gasped, a long croak, but he kept moving, driving himself toward the
shadow. His hand brushed a man’s arm, and Peter dropped his shoulder,
pushed hard with his legs, and drove him into the wall. Peter stumbled
away, gasping for air. On the wall to his right, he made out the T-shaped
handle of the fire alarm, and he hauled it down.
“Rose,” he tried to yell, but he could barely make a noise through his
injured throat. The alarm enunciator let out a piercing beep, and a strobe
flashed at the end of the hall. For an instant of white light, the scene was
clear: the man had been knocked to the ground and raised himself up on one
knee, his face down, out of view, as he pivoted toward the exit.
Peter’s reflex was to rush him, the same powerful drive he’d run a
thousand times on the court, to haul him into the light. But he checked
himself. His first priority was to get Rose out of here. There could be more
attackers coming.
He looked behind him and in the next flash saw her. By the next strobe,
the man was gone. Guests stuck their heads out of their doors, peering
fearfully into the dark.
He ran to her, put his arm around her shoulders, and by the red glow of
the exit sign, found the push bar on the door to the stairs. Emergency
floodlights filled the stairwell, nearly blinding him as they sped down the
concrete steps.
They ran across the lobby as the pain spread in his throat and his breath
came in wheezes. A hallway near the restrooms led to a side entrance on
Nineteenth Street. Peter stepped into the circle toward a taxi, his arm up.
Cars honked and dove as their drivers slammed on their brakes. The cab
flashed its lights and they raced to the side door.
He helped Rose in first, while he held the door and scanned the street,
then climbed in after.
Someplace safe. “The White House,” Peter croaked to the driver.
“Seventeenth and G.”
He looked at Peter with wide eyes. “Are you okay?”
“Just drive,” Rose said. The cabbie nosed into the traffic toward
Connecticut Avenue. They watched Dupont Circle shrink in the rearview as
the first sirens—police and fire—lit up the streets to the north.
OceanofPDF.com
30
PETER, STILL BARELY able to speak, called ahead to Diane Farr. A
Secret Service agent was waiting for them at the southwest entrance, out of
sight of the news networks that were normally camped out near the North
Lawn.
Peter recognized the agent, Daniel Akana, a burly man of Pacific
Islands descent who, unlike many of the other agents, often carried a hint of
a smile. But his face was grim as he rushed Peter and Rose inside.
Peter’s throat felt like a crumpled drinking straw. His labored breaths
were driving him to panic, but the swelling didn’t seem to be getting any
worse. Farr joined them in the West Wing corridor and marched them past
rubbernecking staffers into the White House proper and a small medical
clinic.
Peter lay on a table in an exam room. This office, just inside the
mansion, attended to the first family’s health and any emergencies that
came up for staffers and visitors. While the on-call physician examined
Peter’s throat, Farr talked quietly with Rose and led her into the hallway.
The doctor—a navy surgeon—pocketed her penlight. “I’d like to get
you to GW hospital, just in case,” she said, as she handed Peter a bag of ice
to drape over his throat.
“No,” he whispered. “I’m good.”
She checked her watch. “If that swelling’s not down in a half hour,
you’re going,” she said, then stepped out.
The cold pushed back the pain, and a bead of condensation ran down his
neck. He stared at the tiles of the dropped ceiling and the cold white
fluorescent lights, and his mind kept crashing back into that hotel hallway.
He wanted to remember the face from the strobing lights during the
attack, anything specific. He found nothing. Rose hadn’t been able to
describe the man stalking them. Now Peter understood that was the
attacker’s gift.
Another Secret Service agent came in and took Peter’s statement on
what had happened, but the agent had no information about whether they
had found the attacker from the hallway.
After the agent left, Peter waited for his heart to slow down. It never
did. He checked the clock. Twenty minutes. He couldn’t be sitting around
here. His chest rose and fell, and his breath came with pain, but it was
coming.
He sat up and gripped the table with his free hand. He was still jacked
from the run-in and needed to move. That killer was out there. He stepped
out of the exam room into the hall.
The doctor was talking with a nurse a few feet away. “Hold on,” she
said to Peter.
“I’m okay.”
“You need to rest.”
Over her shoulder, Peter saw Farr approach from the small reception
area.
“Diane,” Peter said. “What’s going on?”
“Is he all right?” Farr asked the doctor.
“I can breathe,” Peter said. “I’m fine.”
The doctor looked from him to Farr and perhaps saw that something
was happening that reached above her very estimable pay grade. The White
House docs were used to their clients’ agendas taking priority. She ran her
fingers over his swollen windpipe and nodded to Farr.
“I’ll keep an eye on him,” Farr said. She led him toward the door, and
the doctor gave Peter a stern look and pointed to the bag of ice in his hand.
“Where’s Rose?” Peter asked, as he and Farr walked through the gallery
toward the West Wing.
“She’s fine. She’s with Hawkins. A debrief. He’s running the response
to this.”
Peter shook his head.
“Relax,” Farr said. “It’s not an interrogation. They’re in the mess.”
“You need a dragnet. The attacker shut down all the lights at the hotel,
just like at the Campbells’ house. It’s the same killer. We need to find him.”
“We have DC police and the FBI on it. This isn’t the Wild West. You’re
not going to posse up and go looking.”
She opened the door to her office, and they stepped in.
“Where was her security?” Peter asked.
“We had a patrol, a regular check.”
“That woman trusted us, and we nearly got her killed.”
Farr cocked her head and eyed Peter with the look of a patient parent.
He was out of order.
“What were you doing there, Peter?”
“What? I was looking out for the witness.”
“Why were you there?” She emphasized every word. Was she
suspicious of him, even after he’d stopped the killer?
He felt the anger coming and closed his hand slightly, scythed his
thumbnail into the side of his finger and found something soothing in that
pain. He went on, choosing his words carefully.
“She called me. She needed help. Her security was gone and she
thought she saw someone after her. She was right.”
“Where did she get your number?”
“I gave her my card after the funeral, in case she needed help. I told her
I would get her to the right people.”
“Did you tell her anything about the case?”
“No. Not even what she already mentioned on the phone that night. We
walked around. I showed her a little bit of how to pick up if someone was
following her, something to make her feel better. You want to go after me,
that’s fine. But you should be asking why Rose was left wide-open for this
man to come take her.”
“That is an excellent question.”
“What’s going on, Diane? What is that emergency line for? Why is all
of this eyes only?”
She shut her eyes and nodded along to the questions, as if
acknowledging that they were fair.
“We should talk, Peter. You know when I first saw your file, I thought
you were just a classic brownnose.”
“Sorry?”
“Kiss-ass. Color inside the lines. Try to prove you’re not your dad. Get
the bureau to pat you on the head.”
Peter’s fist tightened. The ice ground together. “What is this?”
“But I always wondered if it was more than that. Maybe you were some
kind of mission fanatic, trying to make up for what he did no matter what
harm it would bring on yourself. God,” she said, shaking her head in
disbelief. “You rushed the attacker at the hotel?”
Peter’s throat hurt with every pound of his pulse. This whole scene felt
like he was watching it from above. What was she getting at?
“I’m not on a crusade to clear my father’s name. I’ve never gone near
that.”
Farr sat behind her desk, dialed in the combination lock on her drawer,
and pulled out a sheaf of papers.
“I don’t think you are. I think you’re trying to make up for the lives he
lost by doing what you think is the right thing here. Is that it? Part of it?”
His jaw tightened. That was some deep, dark shit she was digging in,
but in a way it was obvious. “Sure,” he said, keeping his voice calm.
“How serious are you about that, Peter? Doing the right thing no matter
what the cost?”
“What do you mean?”
“Let’s take the most extreme example. What if, hypothetically speaking,
you were investigating your own father back then. What if you came across
evidence that conclusively showed he was involved in espionage? What
would you do?”
“What the hell is this?” Peter growled, forgetting the pain in his throat
for a moment. It came back, even stronger, and he shut his eyes.
“Everyone wants to do the right thing when it’s easy,” she said. “But
how committed are you? Just answer the question. What would you do,
against your own father?”
“Destroy him.” Peter said it quietly. It was the truth. Was she testing
him? Trying to find out if this was too personal? If he was compromised by
his past, running on anger or desperate to atone?
She sat with his response for a moment. “And this Rose Larkin thing.
You maintained an interest in the case even after you were warned.”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
“Because she needed help, and she asked me.”
“Would you do it again? What if it cost you your job?”
Peter looked at her. You can never get in trouble with the truth. That’s
what they always told him. This sure felt like trouble.
What if Rose called again? What if no one was there? Innocents.
Unanswered calls. It was treacherous ground, a part of himself he had never
really understood. He wouldn’t lie.
“Yes,” he said.
She looked at him coldly for a moment and then relaxed, as if satisfied.
“Good. I need a fanatic right now. You have no idea what we’re up
against.” She looked at her desk phone, then at the door and the window.
“Come on.”
She stood, the papers in her hand.
“Where are we going?”
“Sit Room,” she said and tapped her fingers on the pages. “It’s time I
read you in.”
OceanofPDF.com
31
FARR LED PETER down the hall. Extra Secret Service agents stood by
the main West Wing entrances, carrying submachine guns. The whole place
felt like it was on a war footing.
They entered the Sit Room and walked past the watch officers into the
small breakout conference room, one of the most secure spots in the White
House. She frosted the windows and shut the door. The hiss of white noise
worked in the background.
He took the chair opposite her as she sat and ran her finger over the
papers.
“We tell a lot of stories around here about the importance of speaking
truth to power, of going after corruption even at the highest levels. I
imagine you’ve seen enough to know that’s all romanticized. You know
what happens as often as not.”
Peter nodded. “The powerful bury you.”
“That’s right.”
Farr took the cover sheet off the papers. “This is hard for me because I
need to ask you whether you want to be read in on a program before you
can really understand what it’s about. I’m telling you this now. As a young
guy with a career ahead of you, you should just walk away.”
“I’m not hunting promotions,” he said. The whole scene felt wrong,
sitting down here with the chief of staff like he was her confessor. “I get it.”
“You don’t,” she said. “That’s the problem. Before I can tell you
anything, you need to sign this. If you ever talk about anything I share with
you now or at any moment going forward, you’ll go to prison for five to
twenty years. You won’t be able to defend yourself because nothing we talk
about can be brought up in a courtroom in your defense. You talk, you go
away. That’s it.”
Somehow, Peter knew that those papers were part of the reason Farr had
brought him into the West Wing in the first place.
He lifted the pen. He kept his word. He didn’t share secrets. He had
nothing to be afraid of. And he wanted to know what the hell was going on.
He turned the papers around and signed twice on the last page. She
retrieved them and sat back in her chair.
“Do you understand now why everything you heard on that phone was
eyes only to me and Hawkins?”
“Not fully,” he said. “Whatever Rose’s aunt and uncle told her, and she
told me—about the red ledger and OSPREY—is valuable enough to kill for.
So you wanted to keep the circle small.”
Farr nodded.
“Were the Campbells counterintelligence?” Peter asked.
“Yes. Retired. They worked for the CIA and then an FBI squad. They
were investigating a cell of foreign intelligence officers . . . and their
agents.”
She didn’t go on, simply watched him for a moment. Agents—that
meant the foreign spies’ sources, the Americans they had under their
control.
Farr was rattled. She wouldn’t take precautions like these unless this
was the worst-case scenario.
That emergency line went eyes only to her and Hawkins. There was
only one reason she would silo the information like that, to avoid the
normal, carefully mapped-out channels of the intelligence and national
security agencies. It was the same reason you would use off-books
personnel, like Henry and Paulette Campbell.
Peter leaned forward. “There’s a threat from inside? Someone in the
government?”
Farr stared at him. She looked like a woman in mourning. “Yes.”
“Christ,” Peter said. He ran his hand over the cheap veneer on the table.
There was a traitor. He understood why she asked him about his father. It
was happening again, but now Peter was at the center of it.
“So the Campbells reported straight to you to protect their information
from a mole?” The word felt so strange as he said it. “They were trying to
find out who it was?”
He wished he were more shocked, but the CIA had been shot through
with leaks for its entire existence.
He glanced at the papers. “But still. Why report to only you and
Hawkins? If the Campbells’ investigation was codeword classified, the only
people who know about it would be so senior . . .”
“That’s correct,” she said.
Peter looked down, trying to absorb it. Operations like these, known as
special access programs, were limited to only the highest-ranking national
security personnel. That meant Farr was worried about someone near the
top of the intelligence world.
His mouth was as dry as paper. “That’s why you put me on the desk.
Because I’m a nobody. If it is an insider, there is no way I would owe them.
No one would have bothered getting to me. I have no relationships with
anyone with any clout. I couldn’t have been compromised.”
“That was part of it.”
He shut his eyes. He knew the other part. His father. An older betrayal.
His original sin. No one would be more motivated to go after this than Peter
was. She could trust him.
“The Campbells worked Russia, right?” Peter asked. “Is that the hostile
intelligence service here?”
She studied his reaction. “I know it hits close to home, but you can’t let
it be about revenge. Can you keep your head straight on this?”
He looked at the bag of ice, forgotten and half melted. A Russian
operation had brought down his father. Someone just tried to break his
neck. So yes, he had plenty of goddamn motivation. All he could picture
was closing in on that man at the hotel and beating the life out of him. But
Peter had a lifetime of practice checking himself, of hiding that anger.
“I’m good,” he said and brought his shoulders back, projecting calm.
“You don’t have to worry. Can you tell me what the red ledger is?”
“We believe it documents the meetings between Russian intel and their
source in the US government.”
“It’s enough to find the source?”
“We think so. Or else they wouldn’t take such a risk to hunt it down.”
“The Campbells had it?”
“They did, or were close, but now it’s gone.”
Peter glanced toward his desk and then leaned over the table. “The night
they died, they said something was happening in six days. There’s only two
left.”
He hadn’t been able to stop thinking about that deadline, about the
rumors circulating since the funeral that Russians had killed the Campbells.
On those long nights on watch, he had been reading anything he could on
the Kremlin’s plans.
He swallowed and went on: “The Russian president and the foreign
minister are going to be in DC in two days. Is that part of this?”
Russia was on the march against the US and its allies around the world.
After murdering dozens within its borders, now it was killing dissidents
with impunity in London. It had forces fighting within shooting distance of
American soldiers in Syria.
Its president, Josef Vikhrov, a former KGB officer with a serpent’s
charm who had killed his way to the top, was stealthily massing troops
along the border with Eastern Europe, disguising the movements as training
exercises. Russia had used the same pretexts before they invaded Ukraine.
Something was happening, soon, and there were a dozen tinderboxes
that could light up in an instant, in Washington and overseas.
“We don’t know,” Farr said.
Peter brought his hand down on the table. “It’s in two days!”
“Watch yourself, Sutherland,” she said in an icy tone. “We are taking
every precaution and throwing everything we have at this.”
He raised his palms as a mea culpa before he went on. “What are they
planning, Diane?”
“The answer’s in that ledger. It will show us who’s helping them and
what they’re plotting. With that, we can stop them.”
“But they’re killing everyone who knows about it.”
“Yes,” she said. “That’s what the night action line is for. The Campbells
operated with a great deal of independence, to protect their work. They
didn’t report every detail of their investigation to us. We are trying to find
all of the sources they were talking to, who know about this, who might be
at risk now. But the Campbells also gave them that number in case of
emergency. If anyone comes after them, they’ll call.”
“Am I a target?”
“After tonight, it’s possible.” She squared up the papers. “That’s it. If
you’re going to get yourself killed, I thought you should know why.”
“What can I do?”
“Take Advil. Ice that neck. We have coverage on the emergency line
tonight. Get some sleep for once in your fucking life.”
“Where’s Rose Larkin?” Peter asked.
“She’s still in the mess. We’re setting up a security detail for her, two
agents I trust, around the clock. This won’t happen again.”
“I need to talk to her.”
Farr leveled her eyes at him. “I’m glad you were there for her tonight,
Peter, but that doesn’t mean I’m not furious you went around me. I read you
in because you deserve to know, and people are going to be asking a lot of
questions and you need to understand the stakes. That means you need to be
more careful, not less. You’re not going to go around chasing bad guys.
You’re not trained.”
“Rose would be dead if I wasn’t there.”
Farr sighed and looked at his neck, the growing blue-black bruise.
“You are probably the only person she trusts right now,” Farr said.
“Hawkins talked to her, but she seemed . . . cagey.”
“You wouldn’t be?”
“I am. I’m terrified if you want the truth. I’m an MBA. This isn’t my
world. There’s an enemy inside, someone powerful, and I have no idea who
they are and who else they’ve corrupted. This is all . . . it’s too much.”
She stood up. “Go talk to her,” she said. “But everything she tells you
comes straight back to me. Be careful, Peter. You need to watch yourself.”
“I won’t get out of line.”
Farr cleared her throat and straightened up. She had let her fear show
through for a moment, and now she covered it again.
She studied Peter. He was leaning forward, balls of his feet on the
ground, ready to move. The fight was still with him.
“Has it even sunk in?” she asked. “What happened back there? I’m not
worried about you getting in trouble with Hawkins. I’m worried about you
getting killed.” She forced a smile and a quiet laugh. “And I don’t have time
for the paperwork on that, okay?”
Farr pressed a button on the wall. The glass cleared, and the white noise
cut off. She left, and Peter strode out after.
The other watch officers knew better than to ask, but Peter still felt eyes
on him as he walked back into the basement corridor.
OceanofPDF.com
32
THE WHITE HOUSE Mess, the dining room for senior staff, stood
directly across the hall. The basement was an odd place: left for M&Ms and
all-night coffee, right for nuclear crisis. Farr headed upstairs, and Peter
entered the mess. Rose was sitting with one of Farr’s senior aides, a man
named Julian, looking over some papers.
Peter pulled a glass from a rack near the galley and filled it with cold
water. He took a sip, swallowing carefully, the movement sending a stab of
pain along his throat.
Julian stood. He was forty, but seemed much younger, with a grad
student air. A bow tie and suspenders Yalie, he went out of his way to say
things like “whomsoever” and “It is I.”
He dipped his head to Peter as he exited the mess, and Peter joined Rose
at the table.
Her face was pale and drawn.
“Are you okay?” She reached out and put her hand on his forearm.
“A little banged up, but I’ll be fine. You?”
She looked down at her hand. He could feel it trembling. She drew it
back and covered it with her other hand.
“I don’t know. They said they’d move me to another place. The
Mayflower.”
“That’s good. They deal with a lot of diplomats there. It will have better
security.”
“Will you come with me?”
“Of course. We’re going to find these people. You’re safe.”
She pressed her lips together, as if deciding whether to say something.
“What is it?”
It took her a moment to respond. “Nothing.”
She was hiding something, but Peter didn’t press her as she studied her
hands. “They’re probably ready,” she said, then stood up. “Julian said
they’re bringing a car around.”
As Peter led her out through the West Wing, he forced himself to slow
down; he was striding through the hall. Farr was right. It hadn’t sunk in. He
was still going on reaction, adrenaline—What next? What next? And now
there was a danger that chilled him as much as the killer he’d slammed into
in the hallway. The threat was close, perhaps inside these walls.
As they turned toward the exit, Peter saw Hawkins at the far end of the
hall. Their eyes met for an instant, but Hawkins just kept walking.
“Peter?”
He tensed. Rose was looking up at him, closer than he expected, and he
realized he’d been staring, standing squared off, a warm flush working its
way through his body, like a man wading into a fight.
“They’re waiting,” she said.
OceanofPDF.com
33
PETER WALKED ROSE through the Mayflower lobby—all white and
gold with coffered ceilings and marble floors—and kept thinking of his
surveillance lessons, a string of exercises at Hogan’s Alley. That was the
tactical training center at the FBI Academy in Quantico, though the name
was deceptive. It was a complete small town, with a post office, theater, and
deli that really served sandwiches, a place where you couldn’t walk more
than twenty feet without a pistol flashing in your face or a robbery jumping
off at the bank. The crack and hiss of gunfire was ever present, and every
detail was engineered to keep you on guard and shred your nerves.
Now back in public, in another hotel after the first attack, he felt the
same way: tweaked, paranoid, exhausted. Everyone from the concierge in
his thin-lapelled suit to the tourist checking out in cargo shorts looked like a
killer.
He knew enough to know better, to manage the fear. He couldn’t
imagine how Rose was handling it. They took the elevators up. One guard
stood outside the elevators, and the other walked them toward the room,
dipped the key card and opened the door. Peter went in first and checked the
bathroom and closet, while Rose walked in behind him. Her suitcase and
laptop bag were waiting in the bedroom. The security team had already
moved them over.
There was a large sitting area with a sofa, side chair, and television. The
whole place was luxe, gray linen fabrics and marble tables and hammerednail furniture. Peter walked with the guard back to the door and asked about
their plans. They were on in two twelve-hour shifts, and would change over
at eight A.M.
Peter thanked him and ignored the guy’s double take as Peter went
inside the suite and shut the door.
Rose sat down on the couch and Peter took the chair. The adrenaline
was running out. His body felt like dead weight.
“There were cameras at the other hotel,” Rose said. “Did they get a
photo of him?”
“No.”
“Is that normal?”
“It happens more often than you would expect. But they’re looking into
how they failed. That might point to who did it.”
There were three cameras in the lobby and one at the far end of the
hallway where he had been attacked. They all took a shot every six seconds
but had gone out during the attack. Only the most powerful actors—
intelligence services and militaries—had that kind of tech. This was a quiet
war.
Rose looked at him and swallowed, her face pale. He had tried to softpedal the information, but she understood its gravity.
“A foreign intelligence service may have been involved,” she said.
“That’s what they said when they interviewed me. Who?”
He leaned forward, elbows on his knees. “I will ask to clear more
information for you. I can call right now.”
She waved it away. “Not now. What does it matter? I don’t want to
know anything more about this. That’s why they’re trying to kill me.”
Rose stared into space, black circles under her eyes, her blinks drawn
out like a lizard’s.
Her head dropped. “They’re going to kill everyone who knows about
this. Hunt us down.”
He stood and put his hand on her shoulder.
She looked at him. “He saw you, Peter, that man from the hotel. You
know everything I do. You think they’re just going to let you go on with
your life?”
“We have the FBI and Secret Service on this. You’re safe.”
She rested her face in her palms and rubbed her eyes. After a deep
breath, she turned back to him, her gaze suddenly sharp.
“Do you trust those people we talked to?”
“Who?”
“At the White House. The people you work for.”
“Why? What happened?”
“The night my aunt and uncle died, that man Hawkins took me aside
and had me run through everything I had seen and heard. He told me not to
tell anyone what I told you over the phone. The red ledger. OSPREY. He
didn’t want me to talk to the police or the other investigators. I think they
were FBI. Why would he do that? Keep it to himself?”
Now that Peter knew that Hawkins and Farr were worried about a mole,
it made sense why they would tell Rose not to tell anyone else. But it was
making her suspicious of them.
“There could be a reason,” he said. “If what your aunt and uncle told
you is very sensitive, they restrict it to certain people. Sometimes just a
handful.”
“Or he might want to keep it secret for his own reasons.”
“Was that your read on him?”
“I didn’t trust him. But trust isn’t my strong suit.”
Peter stepped away. Cagey, that’s what Farr had said.
“Did you hold something back? Something your aunt and uncle told
you?”
Rose avoided his eyes. He was careful with his distance. He didn’t want
to crowd or intimidate her, make this feel like an interrogation.
“Anything I tell you, you’ll pass it on to them.”
“I won’t. But you should. Any piece of evidence could help find who
killed them, could help stop this.”
“You won’t?”
“If you tell me in confidence, I won’t.”
“Swear?”
“I swear.”
“That must mean something, coming from the grapes guy.” She sat back
and looked at the far corner of the room. “I heard my aunt and uncle
talking, that night. They said something about a chemist, and a book . . . a
binder.”
“Do you think they meant the ledger?”
“I guess so. I overheard them as I came downstairs so I didn’t catch it
exactly. They were going back and forth on what they should say when they
called in. It was like they were arguing about whether to tell the people you
work for about the sources they had. Have you ever heard of a chemist
mixed up in this?”
“No.”
“They didn’t put that in the message they had me give. Why would they
be worried about talking to the people they worked for, the people you work
for? Maybe they didn’t trust them?”
“That could be. But protecting the identity of sources is very common.
You pass on the intel, but protect the source. Did they know any chemists?”
“No. I’ve been racking my brain ever since that night.”
“If those details can help find who did this, you need to pass them on,”
Peter said.
“I don’t know.”
“They said whatever is going to happen would happen in six days.
That’s Sunday. You need to share those details, or let me. You could help
stop whoever came after us.”
She clasped her hands, brought them to her lips.
“Rose—”
“I trusted the people you work for, and someone tried to come into my
room and kill me. I need time.” Her voice was a plea. “If they didn’t say it,
why should I?”
She held up her hand. Tears were close, but she fought them back. She
didn’t trust Hawkins and Farr. He couldn’t blame her for that. Farr had just
told him that she didn’t know who could be trusted as well, and only hours
ago a killer had slipped through Rose’s promised protection.
“Take your time,” he said. “Don’t worry about anything tonight. You’re
safe, and you’ve been through plenty for one day. Rose?”
“What?” she asked brusquely. She was on defense now, expecting more
questions.
“No one should ever go through this. And the way you’re handling it—
you’d have made your aunt and uncle proud. You’re tough. You’re going to
be fine.”
“How are you handling this? He tried to crush your throat. Aren’t you
Mr. Nobody? Aren’t you freaked out?”
“I am,” he said, but kept thinking about her question. He’d been moving
too fast to absorb everything, and now, as the night grew late, it was
catching up with him. “These people after us just caught the attention of the
most powerful office in the United States. We’re going to be okay.”
He didn’t know if he was lying about the last bit. But he didn’t mind
that one lie. He needed to say it, to believe it himself tonight.
Rose had given him a lot, and she was coming around on sharing what
she knew. The fear and shock of all this would be less overwhelming by
daylight.
“Are you hungry?” he asked. “Do you need anything else?”
“I think I saw some tea in there.” She started to get up from the couch,
checking out the coffee maker on the dresser.
“Take it easy,” he said and stepped toward the machine.
“Do they have anything without caffeine?”
“Here you go.”
Peter dropped the tea bag in one of the coffee cups and ran the coffee
maker with the basket empty. He turned around a minute later. Her eyes
were shut, so he placed the cup on the coffee table in front of her and took
the side chair.
After a few minutes, her leg jerked. He waited awhile longer. Her head
listed over to one side. She had fallen asleep.
“Rose . . . Rose,” he whispered. The last thing she needed was a
surprise.
She sat up with a start and rubbed her cheek with the back of her hand
as she looked around the room, then focused on him.
“You should get some sleep,” he said.
“How long was I out?”
“Maybe five minutes.”
She walked toward the bedroom, then turned back. “Do you have to
go?”
“No.”
She nodded, her hand on the doorframe. “Good.”
The door closed, and the sound of running water filtered out. Twenty
minutes later, she came out, wearing oversize gray sweatpants that said
USC Football and a V-neck T-shirt.
Peter stood, keeping his hands at his sides and projecting more of a
bodyguard feel, seeing everything and seeing nothing. This was her space,
her guard was down, and it didn’t feel right to be lounging in it unless she
asked him to.
She glanced at the door. “Listen, I know that there are people, security
outside, but I was wondering if you could stay. At least for a little while.”
“I’m not going anywhere, Rose.”
She gave him a half-embarrassed smile. He dipped his head slightly and
smiled back. He could tell she hated asking for help, could tell she was still
rattled. Her aunt and uncle—she said they were the only people she ever
trusted. For her to ask this was no small thing.
“I didn’t get a chance to say thank you, for . . . back at the hotel,” she
said.
“You’re welcome. But you don’t have to say anything. It’s my job.”
She said good night, stepped back into the room, and shut the door. A
moment later her light went out. Peter was exhausted, but still restless. He
stepped quietly across the carpet toward the window.
Light traffic ran down Connecticut Avenue. Looking southeast, he could
just barely see the trees of Lafayette Square, north of the White House.
There was a traitor at the highest level, working with Russia, a crime
that would be unimaginable if he hadn’t lived through it when he was
young. Hadn’t he spent his whole life fighting toward a moment like this?
Farr had trusted him with the truth, a chance to fix the past. That’s what
had driven him so hard since the first phone call. But now, sitting here alone
in the dark, all the fear he’d kept at bay surged back in. He could feel the
dried sweat on his skin, with its faint ocean smell. He swallowed. His neck
was raw and swollen.
They could have killed Peter at that hotel. And Rose was right, they
weren’t going to stop until everyone who knew about that ledger, including
him, was dead.
Just let this go, a voice in his head said. Walk away. But that was the
pain talking, the fatigue.
He watched a few people rush toward the bars near Dupont. He had
lived by night for the last year, but he had never seen it, never even had a
window. A light rain fell, and he lost track of time, watching the colors
move, the street signs and headlights reflect in streaks along the roadway.
Peter’s eyes drifted up Connecticut Avenue toward the heights of
Georgetown, wreathed in fog. He could just make out the white towers, the
red lights: the Russian embassy on Mount Alto. It was one of the highest
hills in the city, with direct sight lines to the White House, the Pentagon, the
Capitol, and the State Department.
The US had leased the land to the Soviets in the sixties. By the time
anyone in government realized that they had just given up a perfect
listening post to the USSR, it was too late. The Soviets could target
American secrets at will, could snatch whatever they wanted out of the
airwaves.
Peter had spent most of his life in the shadow of Russian intelligence,
had studied it the way other kids collect sports stats. The US thought the
Cold War was over, but for Russia it had never ended.
Once a global superpower, Russia now had an economy smaller than
Italy’s and Brazil’s, ruined by naked political corruption and falling oil
prices. It tried to mask its weaknesses with what weapons it had left:
nuclear arms and espionage.
Former members of the secret services had fully captured its
government. They were handpicked by President Vikhrov. It was a country
run by spies with few natural borders and paranoia about foreign threats
built into its DNA. Through its many political spasms, it always came back
to autocracy and a need to attack, to kill or be killed. Peter grew up on
Looney Tunes reruns and Pokémon, and his father cowboys and Indians, but
the Russians grew up dressing up as spies and soldiers of foreign wars.
Vikhrov, who had held power for nearly twenty years, had seen the US
bring down other long-serving autocrats who lived lives of impossible
luxury and indulgence. He’d watched as Saddam Hussein was dragged from
a hole in the desert and hanged in a ghoulish celebration. He’d seen Qaddafi
hauled through the streets, tortured and shot dead while he pleaded for his
life.
In Vikhrov’s mind, hitting back against the US was about reclaiming
Russia’s rightful role as a world power, but it was also a simple matter of
survival for himself and his family. Russia had more spies working in
Washington now than they did at the height of the Cold War.
Peter and Rose had met one asset tonight.
Peter knew about tracking targets, knew that it worked on an iceberg
theory. If you find one adversary, there are three dozen others, hiding in
plain sight, blending into the city as everyday Washingtonians.
They were out there, and they were taking risks like never before. Peter
studied the street, every car and truck, every figure, using what he knew of
surveillance to work backward, to see the seers.
They were hunting Rose now, hunting him. He crossed his arms and
scanned the sidewalk. They would come in the dark, he knew.
And Peter would be there when they did.
OceanofPDF.com
34
DIMITRI STEPPED ACROSS the fine sand of the equestrian arena. It
was housed in a barn, gleaming aluminum with steel trusses, immaculate,
and open to the night at both ends.
He had been summoned here by his superiors, and as he looked out over
the black sky dense with stars, he wondered if this was where he was going
to die. Had he drawn too much attention over the last week? Become a
liability?
At the far end of the facility, a man crouched in an open stall, feeling
along the ankle of a two-year-old chestnut colt.
He turned and stood as Dimitri approached, and waved him over.
Eugene Balakin, former president of the Kamensk-Uralsky Metallurgical
Works, owned a half dozen homes in New York, Los Angeles, and
Washington, including this estate, his newest dacha. He wore a doublebreasted suit with a dove-blue pinstripe and stepped through the hay in
black suede loafers that to Dimitri’s eyes looked a lot like bedroom slippers.
Balakin was spending too much time in the Emirates and the south of
France and at Thoroughbred auctions in Ireland and Kentucky, trying to
copy the peacock manners of Saudi princes and other oligarchs. He passed
himself off pretty well for a miner’s son and former FSB enforcer from
Yekaterinburg. A member of the Russian president’s inner circle, he was
known as Vikhrov’s Shovel because of a youth working the Ural coal seams
and a talent for burying people.
He was one of the half dozen channels Dimitri used to stay in touch
with his superiors. These moneymen and former security service officers
like Balakin had better access to Vikhrov than the overweight spy chiefs at
the DC embassy and one-tenth the scrutiny.
Dimitri had known Balakin for twenty years, but he’d been around long
enough to know, too, that it was always a friend who killed you. As he
scanned the dark barn interior, Dimitri wondered how, and even if, he might
resist. He would fight back, he decided, probably more out of habit than
anything else.
Dimitri examined the horse, the muscles working under a shimmering
coat.
“Beautiful,” he said, prekrasna. He rarely spoke Russian in the open,
and his voice surprised him. It sounded like a stranger’s.
“She’s still finding her legs,” Balakin replied, keeping the conversation
in Russian. “Came over from the Gulf on Tuesday.” Balakin took a step
toward the heater that hung over the stall. “I would bring you inside, give
you a proper welcome, but . . .”
Dimitri waved it away. Better out here, in the shadows.
“You should see these little old ladies,” babushkas, he said, rolling the
word around in his mouth, “coming by, asking for tours.” Balakin pointed
to the brick house on the hill behind them, a colonial masterpiece with three
wings. “It passed down in Washington’s family until a few years ago. They
must think I’m going to trick it out like an Odessa brothel.” He shrugged
and laughed, as if maybe that weren’t such a bad idea. “You had some
trouble in the city?” he asked.
Dimitri stiffened. “I did. I take it that leadership is not happy.”
Balakin mimed talking with his hand.
“Huff and puff, you know, but they wanted me to tell you to keep it up.
They need everyone who knows about this operation handled. The Kremlin
has full confidence in you, and the rezident”—Russia’s top spy in
Washington, who operated out of the embassy—“is in line, too, although
you know what a pussy he is, just wants to make sure he can go to all the
right parties.”
Dimitri took a long breath of cold air. So this wasn’t the end. He was
already close to the edge, killing the Campbells, the attack at the hotel,
moving too fast, too boldly. And still they wanted more.
“They know that could mean taking out senior people in the
government?” he asked. “It could be a firestorm.”
“They do. You have license. Whatever you need. We’re close. This
country is so strong it can’t see its weakness, the fault lines, like cheap
glass. Touch the right place and it shatters. We won’t be humiliated by the
West any longer. This is our stand.”
“How many are there, here in Washington? How many like me?”
Dimitri and the other officers under deep cover worked in cells, some
coordinated by the rezident and some taking orders straight from the
Kremlin. They never knew each other’s real names. But over the last
months he had seen more and more new faces. Young men, bolder and more
reckless than he.
Balakin smiled. “You just tell me how many you need.”
He reached down and lifted a nylon case from behind the stall wall.
“They sent this for you in the last pouch.” He handed it over, then reached
inside his jacket. He came out with a gold money clip and counted off a
stack of sixty hundred-dollar bills, a small sliver from the wad of dollars
and euros, and handed it to Dimitri.
Dimitri put the cash in his pocket and was about to open the case when
his phone began to vibrate. He checked the screen. It was BEECH. “I
should get going,” he said.
“Of course,” Balakin replied. “Happy hunting.”
OceanofPDF.com
35
THE RAIN PINGED off the roof of Farr’s sedan as she drove up
Connecticut Avenue, heading for her condo. American University Radio
had switched over to the BBC World Service. As they went on in their
regional British dialects about the violent suppression of a miners’ strike in
Chad, she hit her limit of bad news for the day and switched the station. A
woman named Delilah was taking calls on the soft rock station, her voice as
warm and inviting as a clean comforter.
Linda Ronstadt started in over a slow bass run, singing “Blue Bayou,”
and it was cheesy, and it was perfect, and Farr turned it up.
A minute later her phone rang. She stabbed the knob on the radio,
killing the song. The caller ID on her cell phone said Hawkins, and she
answered.
“Go ahead.”
“Are you at the office?” he asked.
“On my way home. What’s up?”
“Do you have a detail with you?”
“No.” The agent who usually worked her detail, Akana, was easygoing
and usually left her to herself after she got home.
“I have something for you. We should talk.”
They were talking of course, but we should talk had a special meaning
in this case. They were both worried about the mole, about anyone finding
out about the investigation. Phones were bad. The office was bad. He meant
face-to-face where no one would be listening or watching.
“Fletcher’s,” she said.
Hawkins laughed. “Man, this is getting to you.”
Fletcher’s Cove was an inlet tucked in the woods along the Potomac,
about twelve minutes out of town at this time of night. Beside it there was a
gravel parking lot and a boat rental spot, all inside the C&O Canal park.
This late you could count on it being empty.
“They took a shot at that girl in the middle of Dupont Circle. Yeah, it’s
getting to me. This is worth my time?” Farr asked.
“Guaranteed. I can be there in ten.”
“Give me twenty-five.”
“What for?”
She didn’t answer and heard him laughing over the phone.
“Yes, I’m going to do a little SDR,” she admitted. A surveillance
detection route, a way to check for tails.
“Enjoy,” he said. “I’ll see you in twenty-five, by the water.”
Twenty minutes later, she pulled off Canal Road and navigated the unpaved
path to the parking lot. A white brick house where the lockkeepers had
lived stood to her left. Even this close to DC, the spots along the canal felt
like they were from an earlier time.
There were no lights in the lot. Hawkins’s car was already there. She
parked next to it, but it was empty. Her shoes crunched on the wet gravel,
and the whole place smelled wild after the rain, like nitrogen-rich earth.
She crossed a footbridge over the canal with its murky black water.
“Hey.” She jumped back and heard Hawkins laughing.
He raised his hands in front of him in a calming gesture. “Sorry, sorry. I
thought you saw me.”
Farr shook her head while she caught her breath. “No, I didn’t see you. I
nearly had a heart attack.”
He was standing twenty feet down from the bridge, near the boathouse,
and she walked toward him.
Both of Hawkins’s hands were stuffed into the front pockets of his
jacket. He brought the right out and extended it toward her, a phone cradled
in his palm. He pressed the button on the side, and the bright display hurt
her eyes after her time in the dark.
It was a photo of the interior of a garage or a storage unit. Brown and
white cardboard legal boxes covered one wall, alongside a few nylon range
bags for carrying weapons.
“It’s the Campbells’ storage unit. Out near Springfield.”
“Under their name?”
“They used an LLC. 214AFG, LLC. The name appears to be just
random numbers and letters.”
“They didn’t go in for cute stuff.”
“No. But it wasn’t too hard to find. They left some breadcrumbs in the
encrypted communications drops they used to use at the bureau, and the
combination.”
“Insurance? Did they know someone was after them?”
“Seems like. Most of the stuff in there was deep-freeze, old files on
sources, all meticulous, but there was a shopping bag, too. Looked like it’d
been dropped there in a hurry. There was a ledger inside.”
“Red?”
He nodded. “We have it.”
Dimitri turned off his headlights and parked on a quiet side street. All of
these neighborhoods had paths that led down to the canal and the woods
along the river.
Hawkins and Farr were meeting near the water, but he didn’t want to
telegraph his arrival. He had removed all the car’s interior lights and
replaced a relay in the fuse box. When he shut down the headlights, the
vehicle was completely dark.
The motions were routine, but this was no ordinary crime. Everything
was set. He had the go-ahead. In less than forty-eight hours, a plot years in
the making would pay off. But only if he found that ledger.
Dimitri clamped a hand on the wheel. That fucking book. They had
managed this whole operation so well, managed even to obscure the real
cause of the Metro crash that killed twenty-one people.
And then the ledger showed up. The man behind it was a midlevel
intelligence officer named Anton Novikoff, a kid really. He had made the
arrangements for some of the early meetings between Dimitri and other
Russian officers and BEECH, the source inside the US government. It
turned out Novikoff had maintained a record documenting the real players
behind the train attack and the outlines of the rest of the operation. He kept
it in case his superiors tried to scapegoat him for the violence, pin it on the
junior officer while the rest go free, a not uncommon tactic.
After all those people died on the Metro, Novikoff panicked. He didn’t
want to be blamed. He thought if he made a deal with the Americans, if he
helped the Campbells’ investigation find the mole, they could protect him
from men like Dimitri. He was wrong.
Novikoff was a young man, thin and pale with red hair, weak-looking,
but when Dimitri found him and questioned him, he held up for a
surprisingly long time. He had a strange habit of growing quieter the more
intense his pain became. Dimitri respected that and didn’t make Novikoff
suffer any more than necessary before he killed him. He had given the
ledger to the Campbells, but now no one knew where it was.
If it went public, it would not only ruin the rest of this operation, it
would blow back catastrophically on Russia, make the Kremlin an
international outcast, and justify the most severe counterattack from the US.
Dimitri pulled a nylon case from under the seat and zipped it open. By
long practice he could work these tools in the dark as easily as he could
reach up and touch his nose.
He took two small cylinders from the snug foam lining of the case. The
first was heavy, a black cylinder about the size of a roll of quarters, with
two small metal nubs projecting from the end. The other was a matte
aluminum rectangle that looked like a particularly rugged butane lighter.
He slipped both items into his left pocket, stepped out of the car, and
eased the door shut, then started through the woods.
He moved quickly through the dark, though the terrain was unfamiliar.
It would’ve looked odd, if anyone were able to see him: a man in his
midfifties, moving effortlessly through the scrub, vaulting over downed
trees, and gliding through the woods as silently as fog.
Ahead of him, all was black, but that was fine. He knew where they
would be.
OceanofPDF.com
36
FARR HANDED THE phone back to Hawkins. He was standing with the
glow from the nearest light behind him, leaving him in silhouette.
“Where is it now?” she asked.
“Still in the storage unit. I want to be careful about chain of custody. I
didn’t want to do anything solo. You can check my notes.”
He handed her a folded sheet of paper. It was an ingrained FBI habit to
write up notes after every meeting or lead, and share them soon after: a way
to document an investigation and back up any potential future testimony.
“Good.”
“Though I doubt any of this will ever end up in a courtroom,” Hawkins
said. “Did you tell anyone else what I was working on?”
“No. And who else knows about this?”
“No one. The book listed a series of dates, records of meetings and
phone calls. The Russians have a senior source inside the US intelligence
community.”
“You’re certain?”
“Absolutely. Codename BEECH.”
“We have the name?” she said. “That’s unbelievable. How high up?”
“He must have serious access. He’s valuable enough that the Russians
killed the Campbells with no stealth in order to protect BEECH’s identity.
We’ve never seen them take such an aggressive risk on US soil. And there
is something strange, too. The ledger makes several references to a date last
fall. It’s the night of that Metro crash.”
“What do you make of it?”
“I don’t know. If the Russians were involved in that somehow . . .”
Hawkins lowered his voice. “Diane. Do you know anything else? Do you
have any sense of who BEECH is?”
She shivered; maybe it was the cold. “No. But if we have times, dates,
and places, we can probably narrow it down until there’s only one left.
We’ll find him.”
“Yes, we will.”
Farr wheeled around, thought she heard something in the woods to her
right.
“What is it?” Hawkins asked.
“Nothing.”
Dimitri heard the slightest click coming from the radio in his pocket, short
bursts of whispering static, the sound of someone on the other end opening
the channel briefly but saying nothing.
Long short short long. Long short short long. It was the kill order.
Dimitri picked his way through the trees above the canal, taking care to
remain in the shadows. The meeting was over, and Dimitri watched his
target approach the car. He darted to the passenger side, staying low,
keeping the car between himself and the mark. The car beeped, and the
doors clunked open: the keyless entry. It was unlocked.
As the figure came up the driver’s side, Dimitri circled behind. Hawkins
opened the door with his left hand, and as he stepped in, Dimitri touched
the black cylinder to his left temple. Ten thousand volts entered his brain,
and Hawkins began to list to the side like a falling statue, every muscle in
his body in spasm.
Dimitri was ready, his hip close to Hawkins’s, to better bear the weight
as he hugged his right arm around Hawkins’s chest, and stepped back,
laying the two-hundred-and-twenty-pound man on his back. The eyes had a
hint of nystagmus—twitching left and right, a sign of extreme fear. The
man could still see and understand everything, but could not move or react.
Dimitri watched another car pull away at the far end of the lot. He
wanted to question Hawkins, but he didn’t have time, not here, not with a
man this senior who would raise attention as soon as he went missing.
Dimitri brought out the silver rectangle and held it over the man’s open
right eye. With his left thumb and forefinger, Dimitri held the lids open
while he placed three drops onto the sclera, near the tear duct, and then
repeated the same process for the left eye. He brought his fingers down,
closing both lids at once, and counted. One one thousand, two one
thousand . . . up to five.
It was done. He squatted low near Hawkins’s head, then dragged him
into the trunk of his own vehicle. Dimitri held his gloved hand to Hawkins’s
carotid, and felt the pulse grow faint, beat by beat, like the bass thumping in
a car driving off.
He picked up the keys from the ground, stepped into the car through the
still-open driver’s door, and started the car. His own heart was beating
strong. He glanced at himself in the rearview as a very different drug
flooded his body. It was the rush of knowing death, risking his own and
causing another’s, a chance every time, still a thrill after all these decades.
He waited until he was five miles away, on a two-lane winding through
the horse farms of McLean, and then lifted his radio to his lips.
“It’s done,” he said.
A woman answered: “You were supposed to wait until I was gone.”
He could hear the tremble in her voice. Diane Farr was terrified, and
rightly so. She had given him the kill order: long short short long, sent from
the radio in her pocket.
“I made a judgment call,” Dimitri said. But the truth was, if there was
going to be killing on American soil on her orders, he wanted her close to it.
“What happened?” he said.
“He had my codename,” Farr said. “He was close. He knew about the
train crash.”
“Did he find the ledger?”
A pause. “No.”
OceanofPDF.com
37
FARR FELT HER pulse pumping in her hands as though the steering
wheel itself were beating. Her mind was still in that parking lot, replaying
the scene second by second: Who had seen her? Would any cameras have
picked her up? What did she touch? Hawkins had said that he told no one
where he was going, but what if he was lying?
She was fine, she told herself, but that did little to put the fears to rest.
She had been briefed on a half dozen counterintelligence investigations. She
knew how sloppy they were in reality, how riven by turf battles between
headquarters, the spy hunters in the Washington Field Office, and local FBI.
The most notorious traitors had been taken down, not by some bolt of
investigative genius or a stray strand of DNA, but because of leaks from the
other side, or because their own complacency and arrogance led them to be
caught red-handed.
But those rationalizations did little to stop the vinegar sweat running
down her ribs or the hot flush of blood in her cheeks.
The road curved gently. Only once she entered the turn, and her body
was pulled to the side, and the wheels screeched, threatening to let go, did
she notice that she was going twenty miles an hour over the speed limit.
Farr pressed the brakes, took a deep breath, and did everything she
could to calm her heart.
The atlas lay open on the passenger seat. She found the road in the
index, narrowed it down by the grid numbers. McDowell Road appeared on
her left, and she turned, craning her eyes to see the numbers on the auto
shops and little aluminum-sided houses.
She wasn’t using her GPS or her phone. There could be no trace of Farr
being here. Good tradecraft meant going back in time, to paper maps and
not knowing where the fuck you were. Acid climbed in her throat. For half
the drive, she thought she would be sick and had taken the lid off her travel
mug just in case.
Her headlights flashed off the numbers on a mailbox ahead—13220.
She slowed the car down and looked to her right: a dual bay garage, both
rolling doors down, stood next to a lot covered with gravel and broken-up
asphalt that might once, decades ago, have been a gas station.
Three hundred yards down, she parked on the other side of the street
and took another look at Hawkins’s notes. She pulled on a pair of nitrile
gloves, the type doctors use for exams, and a shower cap, and walked back
to the garage.
She came up around the side of the building, sticking to the shadows.
On the rolling door was a burly Sargent and Greenleaf padlock, the same
kind she’d seen on military sites.
28–9–45: the combination from Hawkins’s notes. Farr prayed they were
right. Having to put a car jack under this door and tear it open would not
help with her stealth. The dial turned freely, and after the last number she
pressed on the latch and the lock let go with a satisfying click.
She reached down and hauled the door up a few feet, then crouched and
went inside. It was exactly as Hawkins had described. She brought the door
down behind her. In the perfect dark, the room felt like a crypt.
Her last word to Dimitri stuck with her: “No.”
Had she hesitated, or otherwise tipped him off that she was lying? This
was his world, of deceit and killing. And she was being so careful tonight,
because she was afraid of getting caught, of course, but that paled in
comparison to what Dimitri might do to her. She couldn’t shake the feeling
that he had followed her somehow, that he was outside or here in the dark
with her.
Farr clicked her flashlight, and an electric whiteness filled the room. In
her mind, she expected to see Dimitri, or Hawkins, with his eyes bugging,
tongue black, and skin cadaver-yellow.
The unit was neat, with boxes carefully stacked in rows. She scanned
the labels and saw they were old files.
She stopped and listened, sure she heard something, but it was just her
imagination.
The shopping bag lay in plain sight, and she pulled back the crinkling
plastic to find a plain red ledger. It wasn’t the blood-red leather-bound tome
that she had imagined, but an inexpensive notebook an office drone would
use to keep his expenses straight.
The pages flipped under her fingers, until she came to a list of dates and
places. It read like an arborist’s field notes: ELM, ASPEN, OAK. They had
used species of American trees for codenames on this operation. She was
everywhere: BEECH.
It was odd to see all the meetings laid out, the dates and places. It
looked so deliberate, like evidence, like a conspiracy, and each one brought
back a moment in her mind: a beautifully prepared dinner of duck and
homemade brown bread at a farmhouse in the Czech Republic, with
grandkids running around in the yard catching fireflies; a lunch, sitting at a
table overlooking the Ruhr valley, with glasses of prosecco, and an old
economics professor, now a billionaire mining oligarch, telling stories of his
first business, smuggling Levi’s on trains from Dresden.
It didn’t feel like treason.
Farr guessed that was the point, to lure her into the trap with something
sweet, one small step at a time, so slowly that she never appreciated the full
gravity of what she was doing until the snare closed around her.
Then the train crashed. Though it looked like an accident, Farr knew it
was an attack. There were dead bodies in the Metro, and she realized what
kind of people she was dealing with. Everything since that moment had
been an exquisite hell.
Her intentions didn’t matter. She had helped a foreign government with
a plot on US soil and now they owned her. That was always how they did it,
a handful of tiny infractions, luring you over the line, and then brutalizing
you with the truth of what you’ve done once you had gone too far to turn
back.
That was the essence of her odd marriage to Dimitri. Both she and the
Russians needed to make sure that everyone who knew about this book was
dead.
Another murder tonight. The first had been so remote, like something
you would read about in the newspaper. With the Campbells, the killing had
moved closer. Farr knew them. She got the call when they were attacked.
She went to see the aftermath. Now Hawkins. While they talked, she had
ordered his death; it was as simple as pressing the button on her radio: long
short short long. She’d been there while he was executed. A vision filled
her mind of her own fingers crushing his windpipe. Death was coming
closer and closer.
Her radio clicked on and off, on and off: Dimitri. She faced the door,
and her whole body tensed as she lifted the handset.
“Where are you?” she asked.
“Better you don’t know.”
“What happened to the other car?”
“Everything is taken care of,” he said. “Relax.”
“I’m retracing his steps, to make sure no one knew where he was
going.”
“Helpful. He didn’t find the book?”
It was in her hand. “No.”
She was blind in that garage, but for a moment Farr was certain that he
was outside, that he could smell the deceit coming off her even over the
radio, that with every step, every breath, she gave herself away.
But this book was her weapon against him and against everyone. It
documented the whole plot, the attack.
For years the Russians had constrained themselves to mostly economic
and scientific espionage. Even the long-running illegals program that was
uncovered in 2010 hadn’t done any real damage to the US. Everyone
assumed it was the last vestiges of the KGB—all the wise ones had already
cashed out to the private sector—doing operations for operations’ sake, just
to feel like they were still spies.
But this evidence demonstrated Russian active measures at their most
extreme; it was a road map to war. If she needed it to, the ledger would give
her enough leverage to save herself from Dimitri, because if it went public,
the US would have no choice but to strike back at Russia.
“Did he tell you anything else?” she asked. “To help us find it?”
“No.”
“Is he . . .”
“Yes.”
“So we’re okay.”
“No. The Larkin girl knows more than she’s letting on.”
Farr suspected the same thing. Rose was acting strangely in interviews,
wary, withholding. Perhaps her aunt and uncle had told her something else,
maybe mentioned other witnesses who had helped with their investigation.
“I have that under control,” Farr said. “Stay away from her. The FBI
and DC police have a dragnet over downtown because of your performance
at the hotel. She trusts Peter Sutherland, and Sutherland trusts me. I’ll talk
to her tomorrow and find out what she knows.”
“And if she knows too much.”
Farr’s voice broke as she said it: “She’s yours.”
OceanofPDF.com
38
PETER SAT BY the window in the hotel room and watched the first light
filter through low clouds, the sky going from black to gray as dawn
approached.
It was exactly a year ago that he survived the Metro crash.
He remembered the day perfectly. He was coming from an interview for
a promotion at FBI headquarters, but he already knew they would shoot him
down. He’d seen it in their faces. That was before Farr gave him his chance.
He was still working surveillance then, and by habit took a seat at the
end of the Metro car with his back to the wall. It gave him a view of every
exit and every passenger.
A veteran in a Korean War ball cap hid his confusion from his wife as
he puzzled over the Metro map.
A young woman feigned interest as her older colleague, boss most
likely, held forth with his brilliant opinions about the election and the frontrunner’s big speech tonight.
The train filled up at Metro Center, so he stood in the aisle and pressed
his back against the door that led to the next car. He was always so good
about the rules then, spoken and unspoken, even little civilities like giving
up his seat for someone who might need it more or the safety notices and
No Eating and Drinking signs beside the train door.
A woman carrying a Bethesda Public Library tote bag looked to the
empty seat, and to Peter, and the corner of her mouth ticked up. He half
expected to catch a line in return like, “Oh no, do I look old enough that
people are offering me seats?”
Before she could say anything, a woman in her early twenties darted
between them and planted herself in it, somehow managing the entire
maneuver without looking up from her phone.
The older woman’s eyes met Peter’s and they both laughed. It was such
a normal evening.
Then the train jerked back, a sudden slowing, and went dark for a
moment, lit only by the lights of the tunnel as they strobed by. The woman
with the tote bag stumbled forward. He caught her arm and steadied her.
Peter leaned forward to balance as the train accelerated and the lights
came back on. The others went back to their phones, but Peter kept
watching, listening, absorbing every detail.
The rhythm of the wheels on the tracks—tha-dun, tha-dun, tha-dun—
picked up, and the tunnel lights flashed by faster and faster. The flimsy
pages of the Express shook in the commuters’ hands. Something was
wrong. They had too much speed.
Another jolt shook the car. The woman beside Peter put her foot out to
catch herself and let out a small cry of surprise. There was a mood of
general annoyance: rolled eyes and shaking heads, just another day on the
Metro.
Peter held the pole, with its oily sheen, and took a step to his right to
peer out the window. Tunnel lights shot by, punctuated by the odd
emergency alcove or blue glow of a safety phone. They were going even
faster.
Ahead, the lead car turned into view as it started down the long curve in
the tunnel. It leaned hard to the left, and one of the wheels threw off a
shower of sparks.
Peter was used to blending in, working against his size, keeping a low
profile in surveillance and in general, so it surprised him how easily the
feeling of command came to him. He stood to his full height and took a step
forward, looking eye to eye at the other passengers.
His voice filled the car: “Everyone sit down! Hold on to something!”
They looked at him, some stunned, and then sat and gripped the
handrails. The man who’d been going on about politics earlier took a step
toward him, as if to object.
The scream of metal on concrete filled the car, and that man, suddenly
afraid, dropped back into his seat. Peter turned and watched through the
window as the lead car of their train tilted off the track.
“Hold on!” Peter yelled, then grabbed the pole overhead and set his
shoulder against the wall of the train.
Peter knew the crash was coming for them, each car driving into the
next, chaos racing back along the train like a shock wave.
As they entered the turn, their car jumped and tilted on its side.
Seatmates pressed together and slid into the windows. Those in the center
struggled to stay upright, but the sudden deceleration ripped the poles from
their hands and threw them against the walls.
Peter’s fingers slipped off the metal. He slammed into the door, slid up
the wall, and hit the ceiling as the train car rolled, sending him past upsidedown advertisements.
It happened in less than a second but passed with a dreamlike slowness
as gravity seemed to go mad, with riders sprawled along the ceiling and the
tops of windows, and some wrapped around the metal poles like hanging
laundry.
The lights died. Screams and grunts filled the car. Peter lost all sense of
orientation. He was in midair and then slammed into the wall. His head
snapped against the aluminum.
Smoke stung his eyes as he came to. His balance was off and it felt like
a knitting needle had been driven through his temple.
He crawled low through broken glass, coughing. He couldn’t get the
taste out of his mouth and throat—the chemical tang of burning plastic and
paint.
In the faint glow of the tunnel’s emergency lights, he could see shadows
inside the train, some moving, some still. The car tilted far over on its side,
sixty degrees off vertical. He picked his way back, walking along the wall,
hand on the floor or the tops of the seats to steady himself.
The woman with the tote bag crouched by the exit, blood smeared on
her cheek. She scratched at the seam between the doors, driving her fingers
into the thin crack and pulling. The smoke thickened. Sweat dripped into
Peter’s eyes. The fire was getting closer.
They wouldn’t get anywhere. There was a release beside the door, but a
plastic section of wall had been knocked loose and was covering the handle.
Peter had to get to it to open those doors. He stepped toward them. “The
handle,” he said. “I need—”
“We’re all trying to get out,” barked the man Peter had figured for a
boss. Peter didn’t have time to argue. He moved the man to the side with
one hand on his shoulder as easily as pulling a drape. In the same motion,
he brought his foot forward and drove it through the plastic panel,
shattering it. He reached in and twisted the door release handle.
Peter crouched and hauled the left door open, driving with his legs. The
man watched, stunned for a moment, and then he and the woman joined in.
They opened it as far as it would go, shoving it back through the warped
metal. It was only two or three feet wide, and with the angle of the train car
on its side it looked like a half-open cellar door, but it was enough.
The passengers moved toward the exit, helping the injured, using their
cell phones as flashlights. The metal walls were hot to the touch now, and
black smoke billowed in, choking with every breath.
Peter helped a young woman out the door and heard a voice behind him.
He walked back and found the man in the Korean War hat on the ground,
his leg wrecked, his wife struggling to help him to his feet.
He brought the man’s arm across his shoulders, eased him up, and
walked him to the door, following his wife. Peter half carried him out the
door. The vet gritted his teeth against the pain as they landed on the track
bed.
Peter stooped under the wreckage, helping the older man along in slow
steps—he must have weighed nearly as much as Peter—and they climbed
onto the catwalk along the tunnel wall.
The heat stabbed into his back. It felt like his clothes were melting onto
his skin. After a minute, the fumes grew so thick that he couldn’t see, could
only feel that hand in his, the arm tugging against his neck as the man
limped beside him, panting from the exertion.
There were cries behind him, coming from deep in the tunnel, audible
even over the crackling static of the fires. He took a breath of smoke. His
head went light, and he stumbled slightly to the side, his hip banging into
the guardrail.
He shut his mouth, stilled his lungs, and went on. Thin beams of light
crossed through the murk, and ahead there was a glow like a cloudy dawn:
Farragut North. The man slumped down. Peter pressed his legs into the
floor and did all he could to keep the man standing.
A face mask appeared out of the black, suddenly close. A DC firefighter
stepped in and took the man’s other arm. They went on, the last forty feet of
the catwalk, and then onto the platform. Another first responder rushed in
and took Peter’s spot beside the man. Peter heard screams from the tunnel
and turned.
“You can’t go back in there!” a firefighter yelled to him and grabbed for
his shoulder. Peter pulled away and started back, five steps before his vision
wavered. He stumbled and they dragged him out of the smoke. It was
thicker now, smothering like a pillow over the face.
Someone led him to the stairs. His mind clouded by the fumes, he
trudged up the dead escalator with the others: mothers and fathers and
daughters and sons, tourists and feds, painted in ash and blood.
OceanofPDF.com
39
PALE SUNLIGHT ANGLED in through the drapes. Peter touched the tips
of his fingers to a white line just above his hairline. The crash had left him
with a grade-one concussion and that scar. It only showed when he had a
fresh haircut.
Like the rest of Washington after the accident, he’d been on high alert,
eager to help find out what sent that train off its tracks and cost so many
lives.
Metro and the National Transportation Safety Board called in an outside
investigator to avoid any conflicts of interest, and the conclusion came back
months later. Parasitic oscillations had developed in the automatic train
controls, a result of trying to marry a state-of-the-art computer system to
aging wires and failing infrastructure. It was an accident.
A door whispered open, and Rose tiptoed into the sitting room, circling
toward his chair.
“Morning,” he said.
She jumped back and put her hand to her chest. “Sorry, you startled me
a bit. I thought you were asleep.”
He stood. It was just after dawn. She was wearing a pair of jeans and a
sweater.
“You spent all night in that chair?”
“I moved around a little.” He was used to spending nights awake, on
watch, sometimes two in a row. Last night had been relatively cushy by his
standards. “How did you sleep?”
She made a doubtful face for a moment, wondering, he guessed, if it
was a resentful dig at her. It wasn’t. She seemed to pick up on that and
looked at him warmly.
“Really well, thank you. Do you want some coffee or anything?”
Peter checked his phone. Six thirty A.M. The optics on this were bad, he
knew. He would talk to Farr before she heard from someone else that he’d
spent the night in the hotel room of a witness.
“I’m good, thanks,” he said. “I’m going to step outside for a phone
call.”
“Okay.”
He left the room and started walking toward the sitting area at the end
of the hall. His phone buzzed in his hand. It was a White House number.
“Sutherland,” he said when he answered it.
“How’s it going, Romeo?” It was Farr.
“I—”
“Relax. I know you’re not that stupid. You’re both in the room?”
“She is. I stepped into the hallway.” The security team must have told
her that he spent the night.
“Good. Sit tight. I need to talk with Rose. I’ll be there in five.”
It took three. She probably had been driving by on her way to work.
Peter hung out at the chairs near the elevators, because he wanted to catch
her on her way in. The elevator arrived with a ding, and Farr stepped out,
holding a tray with two coffees in it. She looked exhausted.
“Walk with me, Peter,” she said, glancing at her phone. “I don’t have
much time. I need to run some more questions past her.”
“Before you go in.”
She pocketed her cell. “Yes.”
“She’s scared. She doesn’t know why Hawkins told her not to talk to the
police or other FBI.”
Farr’s face turned grim. “Did you tell her our concerns about someone
inside?” she asked in a low voice. “Why this is siloed?”
“No. I wouldn’t. But I would like to tell her something, at least in the
broadest outline, to help explain it. It would make her understand why this
case is being handled so oddly and put her at ease.”
“And make her more likely to work with us.”
“It could help.” Peter chose his words carefully, trying to concentrate
despite the lack of sleep. He was careful not to reveal that Rose knew more
than she was letting on. But she had important information to share—what
she had heard the Campbells discussing that night and the mention of a
chemist—information that might help stop the killers.
“You give her the broadest possible take,” Farr said. “That we are
keeping this buttoned up because not everyone can be trusted with secrets
like this. Nothing about the specifics.”
“Sure.”
“Is she ready?”
“I’ll tell her you’re here. She’s still a little shaken up.”
“I get it,” Farr said. “I wouldn’t be in a trusting mood either if
somebody tried to kill me while I thought I was under protection.”
Peter knocked on the door. Rose let him in and looked into the hallway.
Farr smiled at her but stayed outside.
Rose closed the door behind her and Peter, and dropped her voice to a
whisper. “What is she doing here?”
“She just showed up. She’s overseeing this personally. She wants to ask
you a few questions to help find out who’s behind this.”
“I know who she is. I read the paper. Did you tell her? About the other
things I heard?”
“No. But you should. I can’t get into the details with you, but the reason
that Hawkins told you to talk only to him is because not a lot of people can
be trusted with this information. It’s being tightly held.”
“They don’t trust the people they work with?”
“I didn’t say that.”
“The FBI? The police? The White House? They’re scared of someone
inside there? Jesus Christ, Peter.”
“It’s a common practice to compartment these things.”
“How long have you known her?”
“Eight years. I met her when I was in college.”
“She seems . . . I don’t know. I like her.”
Four knocks came at the door. Rose took two deep breaths, then nodded
yes. She straightened out the arms of her sweater while Peter opened the
door.
Farr stepped in. After a few pleasantries about how Rose was doing,
Farr lifted her eyebrows to Peter, who caught the message.
“I’m going to step out.”
Rose nodded and he left the two of them alone in the room.
OceanofPDF.com
40
FARR’S WRIST ACHED from holding the tray of coffees for so long.
She had grabbed them on her way back from her grandfather’s old house in
the Palisades, where she had locked the ledger in the gun vault upstairs. The
property was currently empty, and she controlled it through a family trust
that made it difficult to trace it to her.
She set the coffees down on the table and pointed to the couch, as if
asking permission to sit. This was the closest thing this girl had to a home
now, and she’d been attacked in a room just like this one, so Farr would
tread carefully.
Farr needed Rose at ease, willing to talk, because if she knew anything
more about her aunt and uncle and what had led them to the red ledger, Farr
would have to give her up to Dimitri Sokolov.
“I picked up an extra,” Farr said, and lifted a cup from the tray. Rose
took it, along with a creamer.
It was such a simple thing: a gift, but even the smallest gift could create
a sense of indebtedness. Farr wanted the truth above all, and she wanted the
truth to be that this girl knew nothing. Because even as she sipped her
coffee and smiled and kept up the chitchat, warming Rose up, the thought
of what she might have to do made her stomach writhe.
Please, Rose, please—I know you’re smart, but don’t be too smart about
this. For your sake. But even when they talked of nothing of substance—
how Rose was settling in, whether she needed anything else—there was a
sharpness to the young woman. She seemed to be studying Farr, quick
glances to her shoes, her purse, her nails, appraising her like a veteran
salesperson, or an investigator.
Rose’s eyes lingered on Farr’s nails. What was she looking at? Farr’s
breathing picked up. She couldn’t push away the feeling that Rose
somehow knew that she had spent the night sneaking around. But that was
just nerves. Get ahold of yourself, Diane.
There was an instant’s reflection before Rose spoke, a careful weighing
of the words. Farr could tell there was something she was holding back.
Farr couldn’t have that. There wasn’t room for doubt on this. She put
her coffee down and leaned forward, eye to eye with Rose.
“Rose. I know this is difficult. But I need to ask you. Is there anything
your aunt and uncle told you that night? Anything you saw or heard that
might help us find out who was behind this?”
Rose put the coffee down and looked up, trying to recall. “They were
distracted as we drove home, I remember noticing that. Dinner was normal.
They were worn out from traveling. We just told old stories, stupid stuff
from growing up. Then I went to bed. I woke up because of the smoke
alarm.”
Rose picked at the plastic lid of the coffee cup with her thumb and
continued. “I went downstairs, and they gave me the number, and told me
what to tell Peter about the ledger and OSPREY. And they told me to go.
They said to trust them, that they would explain everything later.” Her voice
wavered with emotion, but she pressed on. “That was the last time I saw
them.”
Rose took a deep breath and shut her eyes. Farr nodded along through
all this, letting Rose find her voice, build momentum. She let the silence
work on Rose for a while, but she wasn’t giving anything else up.
“And that was all? They didn’t tell you anything else? You didn’t see
anything else? Hear them talking about anything?”
Rose looked down and to the left, then shook her head. “No.”
Farr’s phone vibrated in her pocket. She silenced it and glanced down.
One text message: “Where are you? Meeting in the Oval in 10.”
She stood and thanked Rose.
“Of course,” the young woman said.
Farr’s face relaxed into a smile. “You take care of yourself, all right?
We’re all very impressed with how you’re handling this. It’s not easy. Let
me know if you need anything at all. We will do everything necessary to
make sure you’re safe.”
She took out a business card and wrote out her direct line on the back.
“Thank you,” Rose said, her eyes signaling gratitude perfectly as she
took the card, holding it like it was a fragile object. The girl was good.
Farr turned and left. What she wanted to do was sit Peter down and
sound him out on anything the girl might have told him, but all she had time
for was a quick heads-up as she passed him in the hall. “Can you be in my
office at five P.M.?”
“Absolutely,” Peter said. “What else do you need?”
“Nothing.” She looked at the dark circles under his eyes. “You need to
sleep, Peter, please. Get out of here. I’ll see you at five.”
She kept walking. It wasn’t until the elevator door closed that Farr could
let her composure drop. She held her hand against the wall to steady herself
and shut her eyes as her head fell forward and her throat worked.
Rose had failed the test.
Down and to the left. The girl kept glancing toward the side of her
dominant hand. It was a sign of creative thinking, of deception. It wasn’t
proof enough on its own, but everything about Rose’s performance—too
innocent, too earnest, hiding away calculations and layers of intelligence—
led Farr to the same conclusion. The girl was holding back, and she was
good at it. Maybe it was that Rose just wanted to play dumb so that
everyone—friend or foe—would leave her the hell alone. Or maybe she
didn’t trust Farr. Suspected her. Whatever it was, Rose was holding her own
secrets, and that couldn’t stand.
Farr had to call Dimitri. Rose belonged to him now.
OceanofPDF.com
41
WHEN PETER ENTERED Rose’s room, she avoided his eyes.
“You all right?” he asked.
“Yes.”
“What is it?”
“I didn’t tell her.”
“About what you heard? The chemist?”
“Yes.”
“Did you lie to her about it?”
Rose nodded, and Peter let out a long breath. “Why?”
“I don’t know,” she said. “I don’t want more people coming after me.”
“You’re already in danger, Rose, and she can help. What your aunt and
uncle told you could help.”
Rose pressed her lips together.
“You don’t trust her,” Peter said.
“I don’t trust anyone, especially not now. She seemed nervous, sick
almost. There was something off.”
Peter dragged his hand back through his hair. “It’s bad enough I didn’t
tell her this morning.”
“Did she ask?”
“No. Not directly. But this isn’t some semantic game. If I’m
withholding, I might as well be lying to her face. Where I work, that world
runs on integrity. It’s not like out there, where everybody cheats on their
taxes a little bit, pads their résumé, twists the truth to get ahead. The
slightest hint of deception, even the appearance of it, and I’m out on the
street.”
“I understand.”
She couldn’t. She didn’t know the story, why he had to be twice as
careful as anyone else.
He stepped closer to her. “Forget about me. She can help you find who
did this to your aunt and uncle, who came after us last night. You’re putting
your life—and the lives of others—at risk by withholding information.”
“You’re going to tell her.”
Peter could justify that easily, even though he had promised he
wouldn’t. He was here to protect her, not make her happy or make her like
him. The fear was paralyzing her, and he couldn’t let it take him, too.
But she had been right about someone following her, and the security on
her yesterday hadn’t been enough. He could see her side, and he didn’t
break his word easily. Integrity cut both ways.
Dual allegiances, to his word and his job. Hiding things. This was
dangerous terrain.
“I won’t. But take some time with it and tell them. Don’t worry about
how it will look, changing your story. They’ll understand the pressure
you’re under; they’ll be glad for the truth. I’m going to go home and get
some sleep. There will be a guard outside the elevators.” He opened the
door. “I’m meeting with Farr at five.”
If she didn’t help, he might have to.
She reached out and touched the back of his hand. “Thank you.”
“You’re welcome. Do the right thing here, Rose.”
He stepped away, and she stood in the doorway and watched him go.
OceanofPDF.com
42
AFTER HE MADE it home, Peter slept for only a few hours. The sun
crawled under his blackout shades, and his throat ached with every breath.
The rush of traffic and rumble of garbage trucks filled his apartment. He
had earplugs and the white noise machine, but the sounds weren’t what was
keeping him up. He was used to them by now. It was figuring out what he
was going to do next.
If he was withholding, freelancing, he might be starting down that same
road that his father had taken.
The decision should be simple. He just met this woman, so why
wouldn’t he simply go to his bosses and tell them everything he knew?
He touched his fingers to his bruised throat. Maybe it was because he’d
seen death come for her twice and had come to respect her fear, her
wariness.
He couldn’t let anyone else get hurt. He thought of those people on the
Metro, the ones he couldn’t save. He still heard their voices crying for help
from the tunnels, not every day, not anymore, but close to it.
He sat on the edge of the bed and reached for his phone. Too tired to
think clearly, he needed to get out of his own head. As he thought through
everyone he could possibly confide in, he realized perhaps he had built this
honest life up too well. There wasn’t a single person he felt comfortable
even talking to about this kind of question. Everyone would tell him to
follow the rules and silently note that maybe it had been a mistake to trust
Sutherland after all.
Leah, his ex, had always been his confidante, his escape, but now she
was gone. He scrolled through his contacts, saw the name, and was dialing
before he even thought about it: his godfather, Greg.
He answered on the fourth ring: “Peter. Hey. Nice surprise. How are
you?”
“Good. You?”
“I’m fine, actually not far from DC.” The wind hissed in the
background.
“Is that right?”
“Fort Washington. I’m at the marina. Working on Joust, if you can
believe that.”
“What?” It was the boat Peter’s father had owned when Peter was a kid.
“I’m fixing it up. Long story. Listen, I can’t hear you too well. It’s pretty
windy here. Is everything okay?”
“Yeah. I was wondering if you want to meet up.”
“Absolutely. Sorry for all the phone tag,” Greg said, though Peter knew
it was mostly his fault. “I know your nights have been crazy. Maybe lunch
next week?”
“Could I swing by the marina?” Peter asked.
Greg’s tone changed, as if he could tell this was more pressing than a
family catch-up. “I’m here all morning.” He said something else, but Peter
could barely hear it with the wind. “Fort Washington Marina. If there’s
someone at the guard booth, just tell them you’re here for Joust.”
“Will do.”
OceanofPDF.com
43
AN HOUR LATER, as Peter cruised along the Potomac, the river wide
here and surrounded by woods, he was glad to be gone from the city. The
last year had felt like one long endless day, switching back and forth
between his blacked-out apartment and the blacked-out ground floor of the
West Wing. The sun, cutting in shafts through high clouds, dazzled him. He
wore a button-down and a loose tie. Together they covered most of the
bruise on his neck. His jacket lay on the passenger seat.
There was no security guard, and the gate was open. Peter rolled across
the gritty lot until he saw it, floating in a slip on the last dock: a C&C 30,
white with blue bottom paint and a red stripe just under the gunwale. It
looked like most of the other boats had been hauled out for the season.
He started walking toward it. The whine of an orbital sander cut off, and
his godfather stood on the deck, wearing an old flannel shirt stained with
paint, and pulled off his mask. Greg moved to the stern and stepped onto the
dock.
Greg wrapped his arms around Peter and looked him up and down. He
smiled but then something happened to the smile, a flicker of unease. Peter
could guess. He got it a lot: he looked just like his father.
“It’s good to see you, Peter.”
“You too.”
A silence passed, both of them wanting to say more but not sure what,
just looking at each other warmly while the waves splashed against the
pilings beneath them.
Greg cleaned his glasses on the sleeve of his shirt. His sandy hair blew
in the wind, as tousled as Peter remembered it. A few grays mixed in near
the temples, but he still appeared much younger than his years.
He usually had a kind look that made him seem like he had just been
pleasantly surprised, and he often seemed to be in his own world. That
aloofness tended to fascinate people, women especially, though he had
never settled down with anyone. He was good-looking, but shy, awkward
around new people, always neat in his appearance. Even his work shirt was
tucked in. Peter’s father had told him that Greg had suffered from a stutter
when he was a kid.
Peter watched the water lap against the bottom paint. How many hours
had he spent with a sanding block, scraping away on the hull in the winters?
His father thought it would build character, which now seemed like a dark
joke. Peter found out in middle school that the keel was lead, and his dad
gave him a half smile. “You do fine on your tests.”
Greg was still looking at him. There was something parental about it,
proud, some awe that the helpless little kid he’d known was now out in the
world.
“It had been up on blocks for years,” Greg said. “I gutted the electrical,
put a new mast in, and redid about half of the fiberglass. Go on.” He cocked
his head toward the boat.
Peter stepped across the black-green water, put one foot on the rail, and
dropped into the cockpit, the fiberglass flexing under his feet.
He hadn’t been on that boat for fourteen years. He and his mother and
father and Greg would go out on the bay, with a few sodas and beers and
two eighteen-inch deli sandwiches in a red Igloo cooler, and reach back and
forth until the sun set.
There was always some disaster: the engine would die, or the boat
would run hard aground and the whole family would have to hang out over
the water on one side while his dad gunned the engine and shouted,
“Farther out! Three—two—one! Lean!” Finally they would tilt it far
enough to free the keel, or simply wait for the tide to rise and save them.
Greg reached into the cabin, then tossed something to Peter. He
snatched it out of the air. A can of Orange Sunkist.
Peter laughed. It had been his favorite. “Where did you find this?”
“They have it up at the machine by the port office. Always reminds me
of you.”
Peter tapped the top of the can and cracked it. Greg watched him and
raised an eyebrow. It was a beer drinker’s move that Peter had picked up
during college.
He’d seen Greg only a few times since he left for school. In his
godfather’s mind, he was probably still the gangly teenager who lived in
sweats and fell asleep at his laptop, wearing huge headphones and watching
old Jordan videos.
They talked for a bit about what Greg was up to while Peter sipped the
soda. He was a civil engineer, a soil and drainage specialist on large-scale
infrastructure projects. They traded a few of their favorite maritime disaster
stories, and then Peter paused, and ran his hand over the worn leather of the
wheel.
“So what’s going on?” Greg asked.
Peter looked at him.
“Or did you come out here just to catch up? That’s fine.”
Greg had always been able to tell what was on his mind. “No. I’m
jammed up on something. At work.”
“Have you talked to the people at work about it?”
“Some. I thought I could use another perspective, and where I work . . .
it’s a small world.”
“I know.”
“You know what I’m doing now?”
“I heard.”
Peter had fallen out of touch with almost everyone he knew growing up,
Greg included. Part of it was leaving behind anything that had to do with
his father, even the people he loved. Greg had been the hardest. He’d
looked out for Peter after his mom died, and then slowly over the years
they’d drifted apart, Peter’s fault mainly.
Part of it was that he was worried Greg would talk him out of working
for the bureau. Peter’s father’s death had hit Greg hard. He’d never been
quite the same, withdrew even more.
“You sure you can talk about this?” Greg asked.
“Nothing classified,” Peter said. What was he thinking? He shouldn’t be
talking about this to anyone, but he had no one else he could confide in.
Peter followed Greg’s eyes to his own hand, to his thumbnail dragging
along the side of his finger. He hadn’t even noticed he was doing it. Greg
looked up to Peter’s face, suddenly wary.
“I’ll give you the basic contours,” Peter said. “What if you had to
choose between keeping your word to someone and doing what your bosses
tell you?”
“Is that all there is to it?”
“Let’s say, to get the job done, you had to do it in a way your bosses
might not like?”
Greg rested his hand on the winch and gave it a turn, the ratchets
chattering inside.
“You do the right thing and follow the rules,” Greg said. “And then one
day you start to wonder if those are two different things.”
Peter considered that for a moment.
“You know your dad used to do that . . . the thing with your hand. His
was more of a fist.”
“Really?” Peter thought he would have remembered that.
“He would get frustrated easily, with the way things were done, would
always want to step in and fix it himself. It’s not necessarily a bad thing.
But I’ve always wondered if that’s how he started out down the wrong path,
thinking he was doing the right thing. The road to hell . . .” He closed his
eyes, fought back some emotion.
“Is it true?” Peter asked after a moment. “What they say about him?”
“No one will ever know for sure. Your dad used to ask questions like
this, Peter. The fact that you came to me makes me think that maybe you’ve
already decided. That’s why you’re not talking to your peers.”
“I have to be extra cautious at work, because of everything that
happened.”
“Sure.” Greg chewed the inside of his lip and looked over the water.
“Be careful thinking you’ve got it all figured out, that you can handle it.
That’s what happened to your dad. You’ve always been pretty good about
following the rules, Peter.”
He nodded.
“That’s not just for them, your bosses, whoever. It’s for you. It protects
you.”
From their suspicions? Or from himself? Did he have whatever fault it
was that ultimately ruined his dad? Greg was too kind to spell it out, but the
suggestion was there.
“Do whatever they say, Peter. And maybe you won’t have to choose.
Maybe there’s some way to be honest with yourself and them. But don’t
take the rules into your own hands.”
Peter let the words sink in.
“Thanks.”
“That’s all I got. Maybe you came here hoping for something different,
but . . .”
“No. That’s what I needed to hear.”
Peter finished the drink. He had to meet with Diane Farr soon. He had
been lucky this morning that she hadn’t asked him outright if Rose knew
anything else. There was no way he could keep his word to Rose without
deceiving Farr.
“I’ve seen this go badly. Be careful, Peter.”
“I will.”
They stood in silence for a moment. The halyards slapped the mast in
the cold breeze. It sounded like church bells.
“Have you had lunch?” Greg asked.
“I’m okay.”
“You need to go?” He must have picked up on Peter’s body language.
“I’m sorry to be so abrupt with all this, but I should probably get back.”
Greg raised his hands. “I understand.” He took a step toward the railing
and hugged Peter around the shoulders. Peter climbed over and hopped onto
the dock.
There was an awkward silence, as if Greg didn’t want to pry and Peter
didn’t want to drag him into this.
“Thank you,” Peter said. “I mean it.”
“Any time. You sure you’re all right?”
His godfather was looking at him closely now. Peter wondered if he’d
noticed the tinge of blue bruise on Peter’s throat, poking above his collar.
“Yeah.”
Greg couldn’t hide his concern, but he didn’t speak to it. There was a
kind of trust there. “I’m here if you need anything,” he said. “Keep your
head down, okay?”
“I will.”
OceanofPDF.com
44
FIVE MINUTES AFTER Peter left the marina, he was merging onto the
highway, his eyes darting between a braking car ahead and one coming up
fast in his rearview. His cell started to ring. He entered the lane and reached
for the phone.
“Sutherland, where are you?” It was Farr.
“On the road. Near National Harbor.”
An annoyed sigh came from her end. “I thought I told you to get some
sleep. I need you at my office. Come straight here. This whole fucking thing
is getting out of hand.”
“What’s up?”
“I’ll explain it to you when you get here.”
The line went dead. He kept on past Bolling Air Force Base and over
the Anacostia into DC, and then crossed the Mall, going up Seventeenth
Street to the White House. He pulled into a parking garage on G Street that
had a special rate for West Wing staff.
He had just walked through the gate to the White House, when his
phone rang again.
“Rose Larkin,” the screen said.
He answered it. “Rose. Are you okay?”
“I’m fine.” The words were clipped.
“Are you at the hotel?”
She hesitated. “You didn’t tell anyone what I told you, right?”
“No. What’s up? Where are you, Rose?”
No answer.
“Rose. You’re making me nervous here. What’s going on?”
“If I told you where I am, would you promise not to tell them?”
“I can’t lie for you, Rose.”
“I just need time. I don’t have anyone else.”
“Where are you? You need to get back to the hotel where you’ll be
safe.”
“It’s not safe there.”
“What are you talking about?”
“I left.”
“What about the guards?”
“They followed me.”
“They’re supposed to.”
“Not where I could see them. They were far back. If you’re trying to
protect someone, wouldn’t you stay close?”
There were reasons you would stay back: if you didn’t want the target to
know you’re following them, but that would be surveillance, not protection.
“What am I, bait?” she asked.
God, what if she was right? That was another reason for a long tail, if
you wanted to see where the target would go or who would come for them.
But perhaps she was grasping at shadows. He thought that showing her
the basics of surveillance would give her confidence, but it might have
made her more paranoid.
“Rose. There’s a lot going on, and you have every right to be concerned.
But you have to let me help you. Where are you?”
No answer.
“Fine. It’s just me and I won’t tell anyone. Where are you?”
“Swear?”
“I swear.”
“I’m on the Metro. I found something, Peter.”
Metro. The word sent a chill through him. “Where are you going?”
“Tenleytown.”
“Rose, wait. You shouldn’t be out on your own.”
“I have to go.” She whispered it, as if there was someone nearby trying
to listen in. “I’m fine. You know where to find me.”
“Hold on—”
The call clicked off, and he turned to see two uniformed officers of the
Secret Service ten feet away. A marine guard stood under the West Wing
awning, as one did whenever the president was working.
This was not a good place to be acting suspiciously and shouting into a
phone about threats.
He dialed her back twice, but each time it went straight to voicemail.
Half of those Metro tunnels were dead spots.
Now he knew what had pushed up his meeting with Farr and set her on
edge.
He went inside and found her in her office. She dismissed the aide she
was talking to. Peter stepped in and she gestured for him to shut the door.
“Your girl pulled a runner,” she said.
“Where was the guard?”
“Rose did an out and back in the lobby bar. Multiple exits. Where do
you think a girl like that would’ve picked up surveillance smarts?”
Peter nodded. Fair enough.
“Do you know where she is, Peter?”
He took a deep breath in. He had been weighing this decision for hours.
Time was up. He would have to lie, break his word to Rose, or directly
refuse to obey his superior.
“Yes.”
“Where?”
“She was panicked. The only way I could get her to tell me where she
was going was to give her my word I wouldn’t tell anyone else.”
“So where is she?”
Peter didn’t answer.
“Are you telling me that you’re willing to throw your entire career for
some promise to a woman you didn’t even know last week?”
“It was the only way I could find out where she was. She’s in danger. I
did what I needed to do. I’m the only one she trusts, and if she doesn’t trust
me we lose our best chance of her helping us find these killers. So let me go
get her and talk some sense into her and bring her in safely.”
Farr stood up and walked around the desk. She stopped a foot from
Peter, her eyes fixed on his.
“I understand that,” she said in a steely voice. “Now tell me where she
is.”
“I can’t.”
Rose had been right before, about being followed, and doubting her had
nearly cost her life. She needed his help.
In the end, all Peter had to guide him was his word. He was ready to
walk. Working for the FBI, this whole crusade to prove himself had been a
bad idea from the start, and now, exhausted beyond caring, he had flat-out
told his boss no. It felt good after all these years of deference. It felt like
power, and Farr was stunned.
She let out a whisper of a laugh and shook her head.
“I guess the girl is smarter than I thought. No one stands their ground
like that. And I imagine that’s why she trusts you, and why we have at least
one person in the entire bureau who knows where she is. Now get the fuck
out of my sight.”
Peter cocked his head, wondering if he was being fired.
“Get her before someone else does. I’m glad she’s your problem and not
mine. We can cover the emergency line until you get back.”
“Thanks,” he said. He turned on his heel and started walking away
before she could change her mind.
“Don’t thank me yet,” she said, and he paused by the door. “There will
be consequences for this. Find her and bring her straight back here. That’s
it. You step out of line and you’re done.”
OceanofPDF.com
45
TENLEYTOWN. PETER KNEW where Rose was going. That was the
closest stop to the crime scene: her aunt and uncle’s house in Spring Valley.
He tried her cell again, but there was still no answer. The Saturday traffic
wasn’t too bad as he took Twenty-Second Street to get around Dupont
Circle and then turned onto Massachusetts Avenue.
The clock and the driving absorbed his attention, and as he forced his
way into a right-hand turn lane, someone honked. He looked back and
ignored them, but farther back he saw a familiar car. It was a black
Mercedes sedan and Peter took a mental snapshot: well-maintained, tires
gleaming, Maryland plates. Traffic stacked up and the intervening cars
blocked the Mercedes’s tag before he had a chance to remember it.
It wasn’t surprising that he thought he’d seen it before. The attack at the
hotel had left him paranoid, seeing stalkers on every corner, tails with every
car, imagining the whole hidden machine of Russian espionage in the
capital aimed at him. It reminded him of how his dad used to joke about the
John Birch Society types, seeing Commies everywhere, looking under the
bed every night. It was a joke that didn’t age well.
But that Mercedes had his old surveillance instincts tingling. He slowed
and watched as the other cars passed him, but it never did, just stayed
patiently three cars back. He felt the first flush of adrenaline.
As Peter entered the leafy neighborhoods of upper Georgetown, he took
a few turns out of his way, and caught another glimpse of it, a block and a
half back.
They were hunting him.
Without using a signal, he pulled into the driveway of an office complex
and parked in one of the spots. After six seconds, the Mercedes passed.
There was no slowing, no driver craning his neck to see Peter. The man
behind the wheel was either innocent or professional enough not to play
follow-the-leader into a lot with no exit.
Peter drove off, picked his way back to Massachusetts, and had gone
another mile when he caught sight of what looked like the same car on a
side street, paralleling him. It was too far to be sure, but he wasn’t taking
any chances.
He stopped at a red light with a Delayed Green sign. The cars across
from him waiting to turn left would get the signal soon enough. He watched
the first one, studying the reflection of its brake lights on the car behind it.
As soon as their pale red glow disappeared, he gassed it across the
intersection. The acceleration pinned him to his seat.
The other drivers would think that he was just some idiot who didn’t
realize he had a delayed green, but the move would buy him distance from
any tails.
He turned right into a tight alley and kept it at twenty-five, whipping
past garage doors, then turned again on a narrow connector and cut across
the next side street.
He forced himself to ease his grip on the wheel. Four more turns and he
was back on his way. His eyes constantly cut to his mirrors. He saw no one
following, no Mercedes.
Ten minutes later, he pulled up to the Campbells’ house and stepped out
of the car. A police crime scene sticker sealed off the front door. The sun
disappeared behind the hills to the west, and the trees overhead were
turning into black shadows. The blinds were down, but a light was on
inside.
Peter’s hands crept forward, and his chest felt heavier with every breath.
This was where it all started, the site of the murders.
He walked up to the front door and knocked three times, hard. The light
went out. Whoever was inside was watching him now, and he stepped back
a dozen paces so the streetlight could catch his face.
He hoped it was Rose in there.
The garage door started up with a mechanical grind, and Peter flinched
back. The figure standing inside was backlit, but as the door drew up he
could tell from the stance and the stature: it was Rose.
He walked toward her slowly.
“Are you by yourself?” she asked.
“Yes.”
“You didn’t tell them?”
“No. What are you doing here, Rose? This is a crime scene.”
“You don’t have to tell me that. Come inside before someone sees you.”
She stepped back into the garage. As she turned Peter saw that she was
carrying an aluminum bat.
The garage smelled like smoke, but underneath that was a familiar scent
of cardboard and damp wood and motor oil. It enveloped him, and for an
instant he was back in his parents’ garage mixing oil in with the gas for the
hedge trimmer. This was such a normal, unremarkable home. He had heard
it all, but it was still hard to believe what had happened here.
Rose closed the garage door and they entered the house. There was no
crime scene tape or hanging plastic or markers on the inside. It looked like
the forensic techs had finished with the site, but it was still not a good place
to be hanging around.
“We shouldn’t be here, Rose. You should come in.”
“Maybe there’s something here,” she said. “That night, my aunt and
uncle were talking about a book or a binder.”
“The red ledger? But it wouldn’t still be here, Rose.”
She leaned the bat against the wall in the family room and crouched
down. She took out a book on the lowest shelf, riffled through the pages,
and put it back, then searched another. Peter looked up and down the
shelves.
“It must be more than that,” Rose said. “There must be something I
know that can be helpful. Why else would someone want to kill me to shut
me up? Why else would the people you work for be so desperate to find out
what I know?”
“The shooters had access to the site. And then the FBI. If there was
something here they would have found it.”
She opened another book. Peter looked to his left and saw the
bloodstains spread out on the floor, two of them, now dried into black
flakes. The patterns suggested a head shot on the left: single source, highvolume bleeding. A slower death on the right.
He rolled his shoulders back and looked away. They needed to go.
There was the evidence to consider. Peter had seen killers walk free on
technicalities—contaminated crime scenes, clouded chains of custody. But
it also wasn’t right that she should have to see the blood and brain matter,
and someone might have followed him or her here.
As she paged through another book, moving like a machine, he
wondered if the shock had her now.
She lifted what looked to be an engineering manual in a blue plastic
cover: Information Technology Management.
“Rose.”
“A book, a binder.”
“They wouldn’t have kept it here,” he said. “That’s one of the first
things you learn about keeping a cover. You always keep your two lives
separate.”
“They weren’t themselves that night. They seemed . . . hunted. Maybe
they didn’t have time to get rid of it. Maybe they hid it here.”
Peter looked over the shelves. There were hundreds of books: paperback
mysteries, spiral-bound songbooks, beautiful first editions in black leather
with gold-stamped titles. It would take an FBI team with X-rays a week or
so to go through them all properly.
Peter looked out the window. “It’s not safe here.”
She stood and turned to face him. Her eyes dropped to the bloodstains,
and she shut them tight, trying not to cry.
“Okay.”
Peter put his arm around her and gently led her toward the door to the
garage.
The cold and the lingering smoke inside the garage hit them. Peter
pressed the door opener.
As they stepped onto the driveway, Peter wished he had a gun,
something to defend themselves.
Rose entered the code to close the door, and they walked to Peter’s car
and climbed in.
He pulled out, eyes on the rearview, looking for the Mercedes. After a
minute, he hit the brakes and stopped in the middle of the tree-lined street.
“What is it?” Rose said. “Are you okay?”
Peter turned to her. “You heard them say a book or a binder?”
“Yes.”
“Could it have been one word, a bookbinder? A person? They talked
about a chemist, too.”
“I couldn’t find anyone they knew who was a chemist.”
“Maybe they were talking about two occupations, chemist and
bookbinder. I know it’s old-fashioned, but they had those bound volumes
that made me think of it.”
“Some of those were gifts. From a friend of theirs. She was an antiques
dealer, I think.”
“Rare books?”
“I don’t know. I just remember talking about it with them when I was a
kid. I used to hole up there and read: Jules Verne, Alice in Wonderland.”
Stay out of this. Leave it to your superiors. Peter, more than anyone,
knew the rules, knew exactly what he should do: keep driving straight.
Bring her back to the West Wing.
He palmed the wheel around and headed back to the house.
OceanofPDF.com
46
PETER TOOK A last scan of the street, then he and Rose walked into the
house through the garage. She went to the shelves in the living room and
eased out one of the volumes.
It was Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, and she leafed through the
thick linen pages. Illustrations flipped by: a shocked Hatter, slipping off his
shoes, and the Queen of Hearts with her impossibly fat face, shouting, “Off
with her head!”
On the title page, in a perfect cursive, there was an inscription.
“How do you know I’m mad?” said Alice.
“You must be,” said the Cat, “or you wouldn’t have come here.”
Welcome to Washington, loves.
Emily
“Emily, is that the antiques dealer?” Peter asked.
“Yes. She gave them this.”
“But not recently?”
“No. I used to read it when I was a girl.”
Rose felt along the spine, searching for hidden objects.
“Did she give them other antiques? Or was it mostly books?”
“I don’t remember anything but books,” Rose said.
“Did you meet her? Do you know her last name?”
“Maybe at a barbecue, but I don’t think I could identify her. I couldn’t
have been much more than fourteen. But how many bookbinders could
there be?”
A creak came from upstairs. Peter froze and listened for a moment, but
it was just the house settling.
He knew they were close to something. It felt like standing at the edge
of a great height.
Peter took out his phone, and searched Google Maps for “bookbinding”
near DC and then “book restoration.” There were only five hits.
A quick scan of the images attached to each listing showed that two of
them were in strip malls, one in Frederick and one near Annandale. Those
two seemed to focus more on binding and printing dissertations, not antique
books and rare volumes.
He tried a few more, until he saw a listing with a phone number and an
address but no website: ELK Conservation.
“That could match her initials,” Rose said.
The address was in a residential area, and he clicked on it. The Street
View brought up a photo of a stately two-story Georgian home outside of
Alexandria with a long sweeping lawn and an iron fence.
He showed it to Rose.
“That’s hers?” she asked.
“Yes. How do you buy a house like that with a business that doesn’t
seem to exist as much more than a phone number?”
He copied the telephone number, then went to a website called
Whitepages.com. It had an option to do a reverse phone lookup, but that
only gave him a company name: ELK Conservation, Inc. That was probably
enough, though.
He pulled up the website for the Virginia State Corporation Commission
and tapped in the name of the company. Corporations usually listed an
officer as a point of contact. The search results came up: Emily L.
Krysanova, Owner. She had the same address from the Google search
results.
“Emily Krysanova, does that sound familiar?” he asked.
“No, but that doesn’t mean it isn’t her.”
Peter typed “Emily Krysanova Alexandria” into Google and clicked on
the Images tab. Dozens of faces stared back at him, profile photos of
women young and old, many from Russia, among a clutter of random
images: a woman on a bicycle, a chess match.
On the second page, there was a shot of three women and one man in
Washington Life, the local society magazine. It was typical fund-raiser fare:
centerpiece flowers climbed to the ceiling around a crowd of very well-puttogether people smiling stiffly into the camera. They looked like they were
spending a lot of money to have very little fun. The woman on the left,
according to the photo caption, was Emily Krysanova.
He tilted the phone back to Rose.
“Do you recognize her?”
She studied it for a moment, then looked to him. “That’s her.”
He downloaded the photo and spent a few more minutes searching
LinkedIn or Yelp or Facebook, for any trace of a public life or online
presence, but Krysanova was mostly absent from the web.
“So we have a bookbinder named Emily,” Rose said.
“And that business is a decent cover.”
“For?”
“Forgery. Flaps and seals. Espionage tradecraft.”
Peter felt warm despite the chill in the house. He rocked his weight
from foot to foot. They’d found another witness, someone who Rose’s aunt
and uncle seemed to be keeping from their superiors. She might be in
danger. They needed to move.
“She might have answers,” Peter said.
Rose’s face turned up at that with an expectant look.
“Not us. I’ve had enough Hardy Boys for one day.”
“What are you going to do?”
“Call this in to my boss, and then get you someplace safe.”
“But you said you wouldn’t tell them.”
“I said I wouldn’t tell them that you knew more than you were letting
on. I said I wouldn’t tell them where you are. But this”—he pointed to the
book that Krysanova had inscribed—“is a lead in a double homicide
investigation and a counterintelligence operation that is about eight levels
over my head. I may have already torpedoed my career. That’s fine. But this
evidence is different. I sit on that, and I’m obstructing justice. I sit on that
and I’m breaking another oath. Someone is killing the people who know
about this, and if she’s involved, she needs more protection than I know
how to handle.”
“And me?”
“I can try to find a way to keep you out of this. You can go back to Los
Angeles. But we need your help to go after the people who killed your aunt
and uncle. It’s your choice, but I have to call this in.”
He lifted his phone.
Rose didn’t object.
Peter tried Farr’s cell phone. It rang six times, and after a clicking noise,
a voice came on, a man’s. It was Farr’s aide.
“Diane Farr’s office.”
“Julian, it’s Peter. Is she in?”
“I’m afraid not. I can pass a message on to her.”
He looked at Rose. “Have her call me as soon as she can.” He read out
his cell number.
“I will. And what is this about?”
“Just have her call me. She’ll know. And this is for her only, okay? I
know some material goes to her and Hawkins.”
“You didn’t hear about Hawkins?”
“What?”
“He didn’t come to work today, missed the morning roundup, didn’t
give so much as a word. Have you talked to him?”
“No. Is he sick? Where is he?”
“No one knows. Let us know if you hear anything at all.”
“I will.”
Peter hung up and brought the phone down to his side.
Had the attackers gone after Hawkins, too? If they did, that meant no
one was safe. Peter needed to find Krysanova before anything happened to
her.
“We should get out of here,” he said.
Rose nodded. They walked back through the garage to the car, and Rose
paused by the passenger door. “I’m not going back to that hotel.”
“You don’t have to.”
“What if someone is ahead of us?” Rose asked. “What if someone
comes for her?”
“Then you should be as far away from that as possible. I’ll find you
someplace safe to stay,” he said.
Rose leveled her eyes at him. She wanted to know what was happening
as much as he did.
“If I did find a spot for you,” he asked, “would you still go looking for
Krysanova?”
She hesitated for a moment. Was she calculating? Thinking through a lie
that would let her get away, get to the source?
“I have to know who killed them,” Rose said. “What are you going to
do? Lock me up somewhere?”
At least she hadn’t lied to him. “No.”
“Are we going?”
Peter ran his thumb over the sawtooth bumps of his car key.
You’ve already gone too far. Don’t take this into your own hands.
Farr had told him directly. Bring Rose back to her. Nothing more. He
knew the rules, knew exactly what to do, knew the risk. That’s why he’d
always been so careful, that fear—the same fear holding him back right
now—that once he crossed a line he wouldn’t be able to stop.
But all those thoughts seemed so far away, like an argument in another
room. He couldn’t let anyone else get hurt. All he could see was Rose
standing there over the last of her aunt’s and uncle’s lives dried on the floor.
All he could hear were those voices calling out through the smoke on the
Metro.
“We’ll drive by. See if she’s there. Make sure nothing is happening.”
They climbed in, and Peter turned the key. The engine thrummed to life,
and he could feel his heartbeat, each pump a dull ache in his bruised throat.
No one was going to die on his watch.
OceanofPDF.com
47
PETER’S EYES FLICKED back and forth between the road and the
mirrors while they drove. He occasionally pulled a quick out and back in a
neighborhood to sweep for any tails. He saw no sign.
At the edge of Alexandria, they drove down a highway crowded with
commercial developments and apartment buildings, then turned onto a side
street. It left the strip malls behind and turned into a curving road with large
houses set back, nearly out of sight behind hedges and fences. Peter
checked the numbers on the mailboxes.
“That’s her house,” Rose said. “You passed it.”
It was intentional. Peter peered at it out of the corners of his eyes.
“We’ll park around the side.” He didn’t want to draw attention.
“Did you see something?”
“The back window. I’m not certain. But it looked like someone standing
in the dark.”
“One person?”
“There could have been more out of sight. It was a quick look.”
He turned right down a lane that led around the side of the property. The
bows of trees arching overhead blocked out the last light.
They stepped out, and Peter eased his door shut. Rose followed suit. He
locked the car with the key, not the fob, to avoid any beeping or flashing of
lights. As his eyes adjusted, he could pick up the shape of the branches
overhead and old wooden telephone poles standing out against the sky.
Peter led them back to the road, and they moved along the fence line
until the property came back into view through the trees.
“Hang back here,” he said and nodded to a spot near the corner where
the bushes would give Rose some cover from the road. He noticed his
senses focusing, the night sounds of frogs and crickets growing clearer. He
missed the action, the hunt.
“I’m going to take a look,” he said and handed her the keys. “If
anything happens, just run. Go to the car and go to the police.”
“I can go with you.”
“I’ll be right there,” he said and pointed to the driveway entrance. He
wanted a better look at that window. “I’ll check it out first.”
She nodded, and he slipped away along the fence. He rounded the
mailbox and stepped across the driveway until he could get a view of the
side of the house. There was one light glowing, which might have been left
on to make the house look inhabited, but there were no newspapers or
circulars piled up, and even with all the trees, the old Jaguar out front was
clean of leaves.
Something whispered across the grass behind him, and even as he
turned, startled, the voice spoke: “Stop and extend your hands to the side. If
they come near your body I will shoot you.”
Peter’s breath caught and he let it out slowly, mouth tight, as he turned
around and brought his hands up.
A woman stood in the moonlight, the pistol held in front of her in a
confident isosceles stance. She had silver hair, and fine features, and wore a
belted tweed coat.
A hunting coat.
Her voice told volumes: a patrician British accent with a hint of Russian
left over in the extra breath around the vowels. This was Emily Krysanova.
“I’m not armed,” Peter said. “I’m not here to hurt you. I work for the
FBI, and I’m trying to find out who killed Henry and Paulette Campbell.”
Krysanova ignored his words. “With your left hand,” she said, “take the
lapel of your suit jacket and lift it away from your body, first the right side
and then the left, so I can see your waist and under your arms.”
Peter lifted the fabric away.
“With your left hand raise your jacket by the back of the collar and then
turn.”
He tugged it up, feeling like a scarecrow twisting in the wind. “Can I
show you my credentials?”
“That would prove nothing.”
Spoken like a true forger. She took three steps closer and raised the
pistol, aiming at his face.
“Hold on—”
She didn’t respond, just studied him, and then whipped to the left where
another figure approached out of the darkness.
It was Rose.
“Emily. My name is Rose Larkin. Henry and Paulette Campbell were
my aunt and uncle. Do you remember me?”
The gun tracked back and forth between Rose and Peter. He bent his
knees and shifted his weight onto the balls of his feet. No. Rushing
Krysanova would be suicide. She had left enough distance between them to
give herself time to target and shoot.
“Arms out, come three steps closer,” Krysanova said.
Rose complied, and even with the gun aimed at Rose’s head, Krysanova
showed a hint of a smile. Her aim returned to Peter, but her words went to
Rose: “You look lovely, child.”
“I brought him,” Rose said. “He’s helping us.”
“This isn’t your world, Rose. How can you trust him?”
“He’s with the FBI.”
“So?”
“My aunt and uncle gave me a number to call. People they trusted. He
answered.”
“The emergency line?”
“Yes. He was on the other end.”
Krysanova called to Peter, “What are the codes? For night action?”
“What’s the number?” Peter asked.
Krysanova chuckled. “You’re worried about my bona fides?” She
repeated back the digits. “Your turn.”
“Pen. Clock. Door. Fire,” Peter said.
She lowered the gun. “Christ. Why didn’t you use the signal when you
first showed up?” She searched the street. “And where’s your car?”
“Around the corner,” Peter said.
Krysanova shook her head, annoyed. “You nearly got yourself killed.
Come inside. It’s not safe out here.”
They entered through the foyer, and Krysanova took a last look outside, the
gun hanging in her hand by her right thigh, and then closed the door behind
them. It was a beautiful mansion, with marble floors and paneled walls. A
curved staircase wrapped around the entry and led to the second and third
floors. To their right was a library lined with old volumes.
Large arched windows filled one wall of a formal sitting room ahead,
and standing in front of one was a white bust of a classical figure, maybe
Diana or Hippolyta, the shoulders just above the sill.
That was the figure Peter had seen standing in the dark when he first
drove by.
The place had a hip, rich, eclectic vibe that Peter didn’t see all that often
around Washington: abstract expressionists on the wall alongside
contemporary large-format photography, a long wooden table surrounded
by Philippe Starck chairs, and high on one wall, the horned skull of a steer.
It looked like a modern gallery.
“Phones,” Krysanova mouthed, and after a look back and forth between
them, Peter and Rose produced their cells. Krysanova pried the back off
Peter’s Android model and pulled out the battery, then frowned at Rose’s
iPhone before she led them down the long central corridor of the main floor
and turned right into the kitchen.
She opened the freezer door and placed both handsets and the battery
inside on top of a box of phyllo dough.
She relaxed slightly now that the phones were out of the way.
“Did you see anyone outside?” she asked. “Did anyone follow you?”
“We’re clear.”
“Good,” she said, and turned to Rose. “I’m so sorry about your aunt and
uncle, dear.” The sadness touched her slate-blue eyes. It looked so natural
there.
“Thank you,” Rose said. “Do you have any idea what’s happening?”
Krysanova nodded soberly, like she had expected this. “We should talk
downstairs.”
She pulled her car keys off the counter and opened the door near the
rear of the kitchen: a broom closet. Krysanova stepped inside and gave
them a little flick of her head as if to say come on.
Peter and Rose exchanged a skeptical glance and crowded in the closet
doorway. Krysanova passed her keys over a junction box on the wall above
the light switch. A hollow thock came from the rear wall, which Krysanova
pressed. The wall swung to the side. Lights glowed from beneath them,
where a steep set of stairs led into a basement.
Peter and Rose craned their heads to look down, and Krysanova
descended the steps without a word as if this were the most normal thing in
the world.
OceanofPDF.com
48
PETER WAS THE last one down. He paused on the final step and looked
around the basement.
Halogen lights shined down from overhead. They followed Krysanova
into a workshop dominated at one end by two long, well-worn
workbenches. Their surfaces were crowded with a neat array of razor
knives, glues, and spray bottles. The farther bench had a Mac desktop
computer connected to two thirty-inch monitors and a light box for color
correction. A door to one side had a heavy black shade drawn across it: a
darkroom, Peter guessed.
On the wall, a flat-screen TV showed the feed from four surveillance
cameras on a grid.
This was a forgery shop, and Krysanova clearly some kind of
intelligence player. She had greeted them with a drawn pistol. Peter
shouldn’t be here, he knew, but this woman had the answers they needed.
He was careful. He could handle himself, keep from getting played, from
aiding the enemy.
He wasn’t his father, he told himself, but he couldn’t hold off a dark
thought: Not yet.
To the right was a small sitting area. An old stereo receiver hooked up
to a pair of speakers and a record player sat on an antique table. Vinyl
albums filled the bookshelf to the left. There were two chairs and a
matching sofa, in green upholstery with a carved wood frame. It was ornate,
old-school, Soviet grandeur with a touch of kitsch.
“Nostalgia,” she said. “I can’t get away with it upstairs. Do you want
anything? Tea? Water? A drink?”
“I’m fine,” Rose said. Peter held up his hand to say the same.
“I’m surprised that you’re part of this, Rose,” Krysanova said.
“I was there, the night my aunt and uncle died,” Rose said. “Now
whoever took them is after me.”
Krysanova took a deep breath. Obviously, by allowing them in here, she
wasn’t trying to conceal that she was involved in covert work or that she
knew something about all this. She didn’t even seem surprised that Peter
and Rose had found her, nor did she ask how they did, which seemed odd to
Peter.
“It’s Russia,” Krysanova said. “I don’t know the name of the man who
killed them, but he is SVR”—Russian foreign intelligence, comparable to
the CIA—“although an attack like that would have to get approval from the
Kremlin, from the very top, Vikhrov himself.”
“But why were they killed?” Rose asked.
“They had something very dangerous.”
Rose ran her thumb along her curled index finger, and Peter could tell
she was hesitating, not sure what to say about her aunt’s and uncle’s last
words, and about the ledger.
“You’re worried about giving me more than you’re taking,” Krysanova
said. Sadness touched her eyes. “You would have been a good intelligence
officer. Your aunt and uncle were so proud of you, Rose.” She sat in a chair
and laid the gun on the end table to her right. “Please,” she said and
indicated the couch.
Rose sat, and Peter, after a moment’s hesitation, followed suit.
“Do you remember me, Rose?”
“Yes. From their house. You would come by on the weekends.”
“I’m surprised. You were so young. That was a hard time for me. I was
often out all night. Ugly work. Sometimes I would go straight there in the
morning, and you would be watching cartoons or reading. It was nice to see
love like they had, or you, with those round cheeks, saying whatever was on
your mind. They never had children. The work was too dangerous. They
were always afraid that somehow, they would get dragged in.”
She closed her eyes and shook her head. It pained her to see Rose drawn
into this.
“Do you work for the Russians?” Rose asked.
“I did.”
“What did you do?”
“What didn’t I do for my country?” She laughed, a bitter sound. Peter
sat, keenly aware of how she watched him. He kept his bearing straight,
forced any reaction or tells from his face. She didn’t have to say it outright.
He knew. Here he was, trading with a Russian spy.
Peter studied the way she carried herself. She was perhaps sixty, still
beautiful, and there was something practiced about her manner, the way she
put them at ease with a faint smile and looked directly in their eyes. She
seemed like a very good actor. The Russians had always relied heavily on
sex and coercion in espionage. They had whole schools dedicated to
training women for the work.
“Bookbinding,” Peter said. “Did you work on documents?”
“You can say it. A forger. It doesn’t bother me. That has been my
specialty for the last twenty years or so. I picked this up later in life. You
have to adapt. Before that my job was to make Americans trust me no
matter what it took, to lower their guard, to compromise them.”
“And who do you work for now?” Rose asked.
“My loyalty is to money these days. Ultimately everyone’s is, I found,
especially my old employers’. They looted my country. Scavengers, this
dictator we have now chief among them. Practically pulled the wires from
the walls of headquarters to sell for scrap. Imagine if someone turned the
nation you loved into one big mafiya. Murdered anyone who stood in their
way, for greed alone.”
She paused and purged the anger from her voice. “It’s nice to dispense
with the facades. I work for myself, for this.” She held her hands up,
pointing to the mansion over their heads. “It’s all so much simpler that way.
No illusions.”
“You were a source for my aunt and uncle?”
“I helped them track Russian espionage activity in the US for many
years. They were the best counterintelligence officers America has ever
produced.”
“You said they had something dangerous.”
“Yes. I know you may not want to tell me anything they shared with you
but let me guess. They talked about something red.”
Peter watched Rose, impressed how well she hid any reaction. “Yes,”
she said.
Krysanova shut her eyes and kneaded her temple. “That fucking book. I
helped them find it. There was an illegal—a Russian officer working
without any kind of diplomatic cover—named Anton Novikoff. He was a
go-between, moved money around, kept the accounts, acted as a courier. I
can’t remember what his cover name was, something ridiculous like Tom
Grant. His English was perfect, though. He could sell it.”
“Was he a chemist?”
“Yes. That was Anton’s cover. He had been trained in it. God, he could
bore you senseless with that stuff. He was maybe this tall”—she held her
hand up in the low five-foot range—“red hair and very pale, and just lived
for tango. You put him out on that dance floor and he might as well have
been six feet tall, Sean Connery in his prime. He was a cutout used to
facilitate meetings between high-level SVR officers and a source inside the
US government. It turns out he was keeping a record of all those meetings.
In a ledger.”
“Like for expenses?” Peter asked.
“Yes. I imagine it’s what he had handy.”
“And just paper and pencil?”
“That’s the only way to keep a secret these days, darling. Person-toperson, and pen and pad. If it’s recorded digitally, anywhere, Russian
intelligence can get to it. They can get inside anything.”
“Does it identify the source?” he said.
“Only by a codename. BEECH.”
Rose leaned forward. “He gave the ledger to my aunt and uncle.”
Krysanova nodded slowly. “I put them in touch. Anton was terrified
when he found out what he was working on.”
“What was it?” Rose asked.
“He came to understand that his superiors were planning an attack.
That’s why he came to me.”
“The Russians are going to attack the United States?”
“It wouldn’t be the Russians, of course. It would be blamed on someone
else, a likely suspect, Chechens or Saudis, and there would be no way to
trace it to the Kremlin. The attackers themselves might not even know.
That’s how these things go. You meet somebody who claims to be Israeli or
Saudi and in the end you have no idea who you’re working for or what
you’re doing. That’s the Russian way, to cloud the truth until nothing can be
trusted. Maskirovka, the masquerade. It’s maddening. It’s why I left. And
now they’re poisoning the world with it through all these little screens
we’re addicted to.”
“What kind of attack?” Peter asked.
“I don’t know.”
“And now whoever killed them has the ledger?” he said.
“Perhaps. It’s a curse. Once Anton realized what he was involved in, he
thought he could protect himself by keeping a record of the meetings, in
case they tried to pin it on him, to cut out the cutout. The Kremlin didn’t
like that. When you’re involved in an operation that sensitive, you know
that it is just as dangerous for you as it is for the target. If anyone found out
or was able to trace the plot back to Russia, retaliation would be justified by
the US. It would be catastrophic. Wars have been waged over less.”
“It doesn’t say what the actual operation is?” Peter asked.
“Not as I understand it, but he didn’t share everything with me,
especially near the end. He didn’t want to make me a target, too. It’s names
and dates and places for these clandestine meetings. As far as evidence
goes, that can be as powerful as a photo or a recording. Those can be
forged. But these were senior officials. Most of their travel is publicly
known. With the information in that ledger, even just a copy of it, you could
track down who from the US and Russia was in each place. Each entry
narrows the circle, until it’s around their necks. And he was terrified these
last few weeks. Maybe he found something more. He was good at stealing
information, brave, even when he was spying against his own superiors.
Whatever he discovered, BEECH and the Russians will do what they need
to find it and keep it secret. Extreme measures, but I can understand why
they would stick their neck out now.”
Peter thought he knew the answer: the deadline. “Why now?”
“That was why Anton panicked. Whatever this is building to. It happens
tomorrow.”
“The Russian president will be in DC,” Peter said.
“Yes, and the foreign minister is already here.”
“What’s going to happen?” he asked.
“Everyone who could tell us the answer to that question is dead.”
“Anton Novikoff?”
Krysanova closed her eyes for an instant. “He’s on a cold storage shelf
at the Atlanta medical examiner’s office. The official story was that it was a
hit and run. But they killed him.”
Peter gritted his teeth but held back the emotion, even as the images of
his father’s fatal crash flashed through his mind: the left hand hanging out
of the broken window, perfect in the midst of all that destruction, as if he
were just holding it out to enjoy the drive on a summer’s day. Both men had
gotten caught up in Russia’s games. Peter’s father died from desperation,
but Anton Novikoff’s death, like those of Henry and Paulette Campbell,
was straight murder.
There was only one saving grace in all this. The killers were taking an
extraordinary risk to find that book and eliminate anyone who knew about
it, drawing attention to themselves on the eve of the deadline. They
wouldn’t do that unless the information in the ledger threatened everything
they had planned. If Peter could find that book, maybe he could stop
whatever was coming.
“Where’s the ledger now?” he asked.
“I don’t know,” Krysanova said. “Anton was going to give it to the
Campbells.”
Rose leaned forward, her palms on her knees. “Did Anton Novikoff
ever use the codename OSPREY?”
“Not that I know of. But I don’t know what name he used with your
aunt and uncle. Was that one of their sources?”
“Yes,” Rose said. “Who else knows about this? Is there anywhere else
we can go?”
“Anton had one contact I know of, a last resort.”
“Who?”
“I just have a codename. GIDEON. Anton met with him looking for
help, a way to outplay the Russians. He was going to use him as a backup if
things didn’t work out with your aunt and uncle. He talked about GIDEON
like he was a legend, a spy who had played all sides against each other for
decades and somehow survived. He’s dangerous. Anton only went to him
because he was desperate.”
“How would you find him?” Rose’s fingers tightened, squeezing her
legs. She was hooked, Peter could see, wanted to go deeper into this world.
“GIDEON has a signal that can be used to set up a meeting. Anton gave
it to me.” Krysanova rose, picked up the gun, and walked to a filing cabinet.
She rested the pistol on top and dialed in the combination. After a moment
of leafing through the folders, she pulled out a single sheet.
“There is a fire hydrant on the National Mall, in front of the carousel. To
ask for a meeting, you put a mark on it. I have the notes on the meeting site
and the protocol here. He’s very careful.”
She shut the drawer and held up the paper. “I was waiting to contact
him, until I understood more about what was happening.”
“We need to talk to him,” Rose said. “Whoever is killing these people,
they’re after me, too.”
“I have the same concern.” Krysanova looked at the gun. “It’s why I’m
taking precautions.”
Her eyes went back to the camera feeds.
“I thought I saw someone following me. That’s why I called.”
“Called?” Peter said.
But Krysanova wasn’t paying attention to him. On the screen, a sedan
had pulled up on the road in front of the property.
“Yes, I called the number Henry Campbell had given me. The
emergency number. The night action line. Henry said it went to people they
trusted. That I could use it if I ever felt I was in danger. That was an hour
ago. I thought they sent you,” she said, looking to Peter.
“That’s not why we’re here,” he said, walking toward her, looking at the
screen.
Rose stood up beside him. “I overheard my aunt and uncle talking about
a bookbinder the night they died. We traced it back to you. We don’t know
anything about a call.”
Krysanova picked up the gun and walked to the steps. Peter and Rose
followed her upstairs to the kitchen. Pausing by the dining table, she put
down the page of meeting notes and wrapped both hands around the grip of
her gun. She crossed to the living room window, in the dark, and peered out
beside the blinds.
Lights pulsed on the street, the high beams of the car. Three short, one
long, and two short. The driver repeated the pattern three times. Krysanova
let out a long breath and relaxed, lowering the gun.
“It’s fine. When I called the emergency line, that’s the signal they said
they would use to let me know it’s safe. I’m expecting them.”
She walked to the front door, standing in the dark foyer. “Stay there.
They’re only expecting one person. I don’t want to spook them.”
“Wait,” Peter said. “Who did you talk to?”
“A young man. Very polished. Maybe a Midwestern accent.”
That must have been Julian, the aide, working the day shift.
“He put me through to Diane Farr,” Krysanova added. “She said she’d
send someone to bring me in.” She turned on the foyer lights. “I’ll explain
that you’re—”
The glass panes to the left of the door shattered into the room and
tinkled across the marble. Krysanova took a long backward step but then
her body went rigid. The bullet, entering above her right brow, took the
upper right quarter of her head off in a long jet through the foyer. Peter
heard bone skittering across the marble floor. He grabbed Rose’s arm before
the body hit the ground and hauled her away from the light.
OceanofPDF.com
49
NONE OF IT felt real. Peter’s mind went back to Hogan’s Alley at
Quantico, heart pounding as they ran the same active shooter drill for the
fifth time. He didn’t need to remember anything from the training. His
muscles moved almost on their own.
With Rose covered behind the wall, he killed the light and shot forward
in a low crouch toward the gun. He felt along the cold floor until his fingers
touched the back of Krysanova’s hand and then the frame of the ninemillimeter. He took the pistol and turned.
She was dead. There was no doubt, but still, even with the gunman
closing in outside, Peter had to force himself to leave her and move back to
cover.
Rose pressed her back against the wall, hands held together in front of
her chest, shaking, breathing fast.
“We need to run,” he said. “The back.”
She nodded and took a long breath. “Okay.”
He took her hand, and they ran through the dining room and into the
kitchen. Peter stopped and opened the freezer door, while Rose stood by the
table. He slid his hand onto the switch to keep the freezer light off and took
their phones and his battery.
They moved on through the rear hall into a mudroom, hit the back door,
and went outside. Peter scanned the yard. It was too dark to see much more
than the black outlines of trees between them and the side lane where they
had parked.
A few lights from the street cast the faintest glow along the side of the
house, so he circled in the other direction, away from the house. He went to
the left over the trim grass lawn and then the branches and leaves of the
woods, Rose at his side. Peter slowed, looking back, raising the gun. Was
that the shooter?
A flashlight shot toward them, a blue-white electric shaft as bright as
day. It covered the side yard in great arcs, and then tracked toward them. It
was too far for Peter to shoot, and firing the gun would only give him away.
Rose looked over her shoulder as the light swept toward her, then
lunged behind a tree as it flooded around her. Peter was twenty feet from
her now. The light cut back his way, and he threw himself behind another
tree. The light hit it, and the beam, cut in half by a long shadow, lit up the
leaves and grass on either side of him.
It reflected enough ambient light that he could see Rose hiding, pressing
against the bark of the other tree, looking at him with dread. He raised his
hand as if to say hold.
His body was in revolt: cold sweat on his hands, blood pumping loudly
in his skull. He had never faced fear like this, but pressure he knew, knew
how to control it, calm his heart, steady his hands. He could turn it, use it to
fight, to win.
The light passed between them, over the spot where Rose was hiding,
then stopped just beyond her, between her and the car. The shooter was
moving now. The light grew brighter and bounced slightly as he walked. It
edged back and fixed on the tree where Rose stood.
He would find her soon. Peter crept around, trying to get a glimpse of
the gunman. He was still too far away to hit with a pistol. The shot that had
killed Krysanova was long and accurate, which meant there was a rifle
coming. Peter wouldn’t stand a chance.
Rose lifted her hands slightly, desperate to know what to do. Peter
raised the gun. He tapped it, so Rose could see, and held up three fingers,
pointed to her and then to the edge of the woods: I shoot, you run.
They were on top of a low rise. If she ran downhill toward the car she
would find more cover. He just needed to get that light away from her. The
shooter was moving to her side now, and Rose sidestepped to stay in the
shadows. She was breathing way too fast, and Peter hoped she wouldn’t
freeze up. He raised three fingers on his left hand and nodded, and after a
moment she nodded back.
He straightened the three fingers on his left and readied the gun with his
right. Three.
Two. She got low, ready to sprint.
One.
He leaned out slightly and fired two shots. The flare from the barrel of
Peter’s gun lit the woods red. The man, nearly sixty yards out, didn’t
retreat; his light fixed on Peter, who took cover, pressing his back against
the tree as the rifle rounds came. The afterimage of his own shots still
burned blue in his vision.
Crack. The whole tree shuddered against his back as the rifle round
buried deep into the wood. His body tensed, but he held still. They sounded
too faint. Maybe the shooter was using a suppressor on the gun, or maybe it
was a strange trick of perception from all the adrenaline, like tunnel vision.
Crack. Another round. The bullet hissed and the side of the tree blew
out in a cloud of splintered wood. A third shot, on the other side, tore off
more bark. The shooter was slow, methodical, precise. That meant fixed
attention. That meant Rose had a chance.
The light came closer. Peter knew that if he stuck so much as a finger
past the edge of the tree, it would be gone. Pistol against rifle, coming from
cover—shooting back was suicide, even without fear jacking him up. He
could see his breath in the cold night, but still a drop of sweat ran down his
back, and an awful smell of terror rose off his body.
He wanted to hear the engine, wanted Rose to get the hell out of there—
but part of him didn’t. He didn’t want to be left alone here to die.
He could see telephone poles sticking up at the edge of the woods. One
of them had a black cylinder in silhouette near the top: a transformer.
He needed to draw away the shooter’s attention, the way his first shot
had for Rose. If he could get that transformer to blow, he would have his
distraction.
Peter raised the gun, focused on the front sight, and lined it up on the
transformer. He pulled the trigger and the gun jumped in his hand.
Nothing happened to the transformer. Had he missed?
The rifle fired again, and the tree boomed against Peter’s back. He
aimed his gun and took three more shots at the transformer.
The tree shook again. The shooter was coming around fast, and there
would be no place to hide. Peter could hear the footsteps now, rushing over
the leaves. It was going to come down to this, face-to-face. And a thought
tried to take over his mind, impossible to conceive and yet so real: he was
going to die.
He took a long breath in and let it out, and felt the gun, the checkered
grip against his palm, let the present fill his mind and keep that fear at bay.
Turning slightly, still close to the tree, he brought the pistol to a high carry,
ready to shoot.
Then lightning exploded down the hill, a white arc shooting across the
power line, flashing the whole night blue with a boom he felt in his chest.
The transformer had finally blown.
Peter ran, angling slightly so that the shooter would have to lead him,
making the shot harder. Another bang, and a tree exploded to his left and
something stabbed above his collarbone. He groaned in pain and clapped
his left hand over it, but kept going.
He vaulted over a fallen tree and sprinted down the hill, legs like
pistons. The light searched for him, but the gunman must have lost sight of
him over the rise. Peter wheeled toward the lane, then heard an engine
growling behind him: his car, lights off, racing toward him.
Rose was at the wheel. He grabbed the door handle while the car was
still moving and threw himself into the passenger seat. “Go! Go! Go!”
She punched it. The rear tires screamed and then caught, and the car
shot down the road. Rose kept up the speed around a curve, holding steady
even as the tires squealed and drifted.
Peter felt his collar. He was breathing fine, but his fingers came back
smeared with blood. He wiped it on his pants before Rose could see it, then
sank back in his seat.
OceanofPDF.com
50
“ARE WE CLEAR?” Rose asked.
Peter checked the mirrors again. “Yes. Good driving.”
“LA standard,” she said, hugging the wheel, her face as white as printer
paper. He’d navigated them on local roads to 395 North, and now they were
speeding along the interstate.
“Where do I go?”
“Exit up there.” He pointed to the left, toward a seemingly endless
limestone facade.
“The Pentagon?”
“Pull in the south lot. It should be open. It’s the safest place I can think
of.”
She turned onto Rotary Road, and then crawled through the empty lots
surrounded by Jersey barriers. Guard booths stood between them and the
Metro entrance.
“There.” He pointed to a spot halfway across the parking area.
Rose pulled into the space and put the car in park. She held the wheel
with both hands and let her head fall forward.
Peter put his hand on her back. “Are you sure you’re okay?”
“Yes. I didn’t get hurt, but I feel a little sick.”
“You want some air? Walk around?”
“I’ll be fine.” She looked at her hands, opened and closed them. “I can’t
stop shaking, but—Jesus, Peter! Your neck.”
He touched the fabric at his neck, then looked at his fingers. Less blood
now. It stung like venom but he was so relieved to be alive he didn’t care.
“It doesn’t feel too bad.”
Rose hissed as she helped him open his collar and looked at the wound.
Peter checked the glove box and pulled out a pack of tissues, then dabbed
along the cut. It burned but he could move his head fine. He pulled out a
fresh tissue and pressed it down on his neck. “It’ll be all right,” he said.
She rested one hand on the wheel. “Back at the house . . . was she . . .
dead?”
“Yes.”
Rose shut her eyes. “God. Do you believe what she said? About calling
Farr? Do you think Farr sent that car to kill her?”
Peter fought to stay calm, to order his thoughts. Krysanova called the
emergency line and talked to Farr. Farr definitely sent that car. The driver
used the safe signal that Farr provided. And whoever was in that car killed
Krysanova.
He turned to Rose. “She must have.”
She held the back of her hand to her mouth and looked out the window.
Peter sat back. A wave of nausea ran through him. Now he finally
understood why every call on that line went eyes only to Farr and Hawkins.
“She’s using the emergency line to find anyone who knows about
what’s really happening,” he said. “Your aunt and uncle gave that number to
the people who were helping them find the truth.”
“And so she killed them? She had my aunt and uncle murdered?”
It was hard to conceive, but Peter had seen it before, the scandal that
took down his father, betrayal at the highest level.
“I think so,” he said. His stomach tightened. He had played a part in
Farr’s crimes. He remembered all those endless hours, remembered the first
time the emergency line had rung, months ago, remembered the urgency in
the caller’s voice. Was that another source? Another witness? He had
delivered that person straight to Farr. Was that caller dead now, too?
“What could Farr possibly be protecting that would be worth doing
something like that?” Rose asked.
“She’s protecting herself, by keeping it secret. And you heard
Krysanova. The scale of this thing. It’s insane.”
She didn’t say anything, and he thought maybe this was too much for
her to take at once: getting shot at, getting hit with this news.
“Rose, listen—” he said gently.
But she cut him off. “Krysanova said that whatever happens will happen
tomorrow.”
She didn’t want consoling. She wanted answers.
“That’s the same deadline my aunt and uncle gave me the night they
died,” she said. “We have to move. We have to find out what all this builds
up to.”
She rocked slightly, thinking, trying to marshal all that fear and
adrenaline and find a way forward.
“OSPREY,” she said. “You think that was the codename they used for
Anton Novikoff, the guy who made the ledger?”
“That matches up with everything we know.”
“But that means the best witness on all this is dead. Jesus.” She turned
and faced him. “We should go to the police.”
“We would sound insane. And I don’t know how long we’d last once
Farr figures out what we know.”
“Did whoever killed Krysanova see us?”
Peter played the events back in his mind. The foyer. The woods. The
flashlight. The last desperate sprint. “No. The light never hit me or my face
directly, and he might not have seen you at all.”
“But when I ran?”
“He was firing at the tree. It’s not certain, but he might not know that
there were two of us.”
“How do you know it’s a he?”
“I don’t.”
“GIDEON,” Rose said, suddenly remembering. She pulled a piece of
paper from her pocket and unfolded it: Krysanova’s notes. “I took this from
the dining table.”
Peter looked over the paper. As Krysanova had said, it was a meeting
protocol: instructions on how she could signal that she wanted to connect
with GIDEON—by leaving a mark on a fire hydrant on the National Mall—
as well as the meeting site itself, deep in Rock Creek Park.
“We have to find GIDEON,” Rose said. “He’s the only other source we
know about. He might know what’s happening or be able to help us stop it.”
He looked at the paper. The person requesting a meeting was supposed
to scratch the paint on top of the hydrant, where the word “open” appeared
in forged letters above an arrow. The signal was a vertical scratch through
the O in “open.”
He looked at the times listed on the paper. If they left the mark tonight,
it would set up a meeting the next morning.
“Even if we do use this signal, even if we wanted to get deeper into this,
the meeting wouldn’t be until tomorrow morning at seven.”
“But you said we can’t go to the police or the people you work for,” she
said. “Isn’t GIDEON our only option?”
“Krysanova also wasn’t sure if she could trust him, said he was ruthless.
We almost died back there, Rose, and I don’t think we should crash a meetup with some underworld figure we know nothing about.”
“Let’s signal, at least. We’re running out of time.”
Rose was desperate. He was too, but he wasn’t ready to give himself up
to that world—of secret meetings and deals with potential enemies of the
US.
“Not yet.”
“So what are we going to do?”
Peter watched a plane cross the sky on its final approach to Reagan
National. “First, get you someplace safe.”
“Me?”
“I have work tonight,” he said. “Farr sent me to find you. If I don’t
report back, that will raise suspicions.”
“You’re going straight to the woman who just tried to have us killed?”
“Yes. She must have communicated with the shooter somehow. If I
could find a trace, a phone log, anything concrete, I could blow the whistle,
take it to the inspector general for intelligence.”
“She’s the chief of staff. Won’t she find out?”
“There’s a way around her. There has to be. Is there anywhere you can
stay, someplace that wouldn’t be obvious? A place where the FBI wouldn’t
look?”
Her head fell back against the seat. “The FBI is after me?”
“As a witness, yes. But they’re not going to find you.”
“I don’t have anybody like that I can call. Can they get information
from hotels?”
“Yes. All your credit card transactions. A hotwatch, they call it. They
don’t even need a warrant.”
“Maybe if I pay cash at a hotel? Can you even look up something like
that?” Rose took out her phone. “‘Hotels that take cash DC’?”
“There can’t be many, and that would be the first place I would look for
you.”
“Airbnb,” she said. The blue glow of her phone lit her face. “My
company’s account.”
“Is it linked to a credit card in your name?”
“No. Our HR guy set up the account.”
Peter brightened. “That should work. As long as it’s not tied to your
Social Security number.”
Rose held the phone out to him, and he studied the map of available
rentals. “There,” he said and clicked on a room for rent for the night near U
Street in Washington. “It’s right around the corner from the Third District
headquarters of the DC police.” He returned to the listings page, scanned
the map again, and pointed at the phone. “And here’s an embassy, which
means there might be some Secret Service nearby, too. That will make it
harder for anyone to try anything there.”
She took the phone and tapped the screen.
“Booked?” Peter asked.
“It says instant, yeah.”
A knuckle rapped on the window, and both of them jerked back in their
seats. It was the Pentagon Police. Rose looked at Peter nervously, and then,
as if flipping a switch, composed her face into a mask of calm, turned, and
rolled down the window.
They couldn’t see the cop with the light in their eyes.
“You can’t be in here without a permit.”
He turned the beam to Peter, who tried to offer him a pleasant, harmless
look, but it felt off, twitchy. Surely some leftover panic was showing.
Peter glanced down, and saw the blood on the tissue in the cupholder.
“What are you doing here?”
Peter turned slightly, but not enough to bring the cut into view. “Is the
memorial open?” he asked. There was a September 11 memorial near the
Pentagon. It was the best excuse he could think up.
The light went straight into Peter’s eyes, and the officer didn’t respond
for a moment.
“You’re looking for the memorial?” Another pause.
The cop’s boots ground against the asphalt, and his right hand drifted
toward his duty belt, his pistol.
He hooked a thumb inside the leather.
“You need to park at Pentagon City Mall and walk back. It’s about five
minutes. Go out. Left then right. You can’t miss it.”
“Thank you,” Rose said. She smiled as the officer stepped back, then
she put it in drive and rolled toward the exit.
OceanofPDF.com
51
THE AIRBNB RENTAL was in a house on an odd block of Florida
Avenue just north of U Street, and it faced a high retaining wall. Florida
Avenue was the old boundary road of the city of Washington inside the
larger, ten-mile-square District of Columbia. The city grew until they
became one and the same.
The house was a red stone Romanesque, the door tucked back in a dark
archway. Rose wanted to drop off Peter at the West Wing, but he had
insisted on taking her here. She knocked on the door while Peter stood
behind her, scanning the street.
Cleaned up, the cut on his neck wasn’t too bad, maybe an inch long. It
could have used a butterfly bandage, but it had stopped bleeding. He had
changed into a spare button-down he kept in the car.
The door opened, and a black woman in her fifties or sixties appeared in
the frame. “Mary?” she said to Rose.
“Yes,” Rose replied. “Carolyn?”
“That’s right.”
Rose introduced Peter as “Chris” and Carolyn invited them in.
Watercolors filled the walls. There were several paintings of Meridian
Hill Park—it was just down the street—in winter and summer, with the
statue of Joan of Arc standing at the top of the long cascading fountain.
“Did you do these?” Rose asked.
“Yes.”
“They’re lovely.”
“Thank you.” Carolyn led them down the hall to a first-floor bedroom
that might have been a converted study. The furniture was spare but seemed
well cared for: an upholstered chair beside a desk, a queen bed, and a
bookshelf stuffed with paperbacks and a few romantic comedy DVDs.
“Here’s your key,” Carolyn said. “Do you need any help getting around
the neighborhood?”
“No, I’ll be fine.”
“Okay,” she said and seemed to be measuring them for potential trouble.
“There’s coffee, and help yourself to eggs and toast or anything in the
fridge in the morning—”
Something clattered down the stairs, and a high-pitched yapping filled
the house. Two terriers, Peter thought they were schnauzers but wasn’t quite
sure, came sprinting down the hall.
“Oh, the girls are up.”
The dogs hopped up on their hind legs, sniffing madly at Peter and Rose
until one broke off and ran to the front window to bark at a car passing by.
Out of sight of Carolyn, Peter lifted his thumb to Rose. Crazy dogs
would be good to have around, and he liked that Rose’s room was close to a
back door so she could slip out easily.
“I’ll let you two get settled,” Carolyn said.
“Thank you,” Peter said. “This is a beautiful home. I’ll be heading out
for a bit. Visiting a friend.”
“Coming back late?”
“No,” Peter said. “If he and I go out, I’ll stay with him. I wouldn’t want
to wake anyone up.”
The woman eyed him. She had been acting a little more suspicious once
they reached the room. Maybe she noticed that they had no luggage.
“Yes, well,” she said. “That would be for the best. I usually go to bed
around eleven.”
“Of course.”
Carolyn smiled, uneasily, but she let it pass and after chatting for
another minute, she retreated to the living room.
“Are you sure about this?” Rose asked.
“Yes. If someone else calls the line, I need to be there. Maybe I can find
out more about what’s happening. And there might be some trace of who
Farr talked to, something I can use for proof. There’s not a lot of time. I
have to try. Are you okay here?”
Rose nodded.
“If anybody comes to that door who you don’t know, or she doesn’t
know, don’t answer it,” he said. “Don’t even talk back. Just go out the back
to the police station.”
“And you’ll have your cell.”
“It won’t work in the Sit Room, but there’s still the emergency number.
Do you remember it?”
Rose repeated the digits. “I can’t forget anything from that night.”
Peter lifted his chin slightly. “The cut. You can’t see anything, can
you?”
“No. It’s under your collar.”
He shook his hands out, like he used to when getting ready for a game.
“I should get going.”
Rose stepped in and pulled him close. The move took him by surprise,
and as he held her he felt oddly calm in the midst of all these threats.
“It’s going to be all right,” he said.
“You don’t know that.” She was trying to keep from crying. “But
thanks.”
Slowly, she eased her grasp, and again he was astonished that a civilian
who had seen three people killed could hold it together as well as she was
now.
He was surprised he was holding it together, but the madness and
danger seemed to shrink back, and he felt like he was watching himself
from outside his body, as if it weren’t real.
Peter was at the center of something he didn’t understand, and yet part
of it was so simple and obvious, despite the sweat and the panic and the
fear. There was something coming, and he had to stop it. The anger had him
now. This was the same betrayal that had destroyed his family.
There was no question; he was going straight at Diane Farr.
OceanofPDF.com
52
DIMITRI SOKOLOV CHECKED his phone, then looked on idly as a
man with a contractor’s trash bag slumped over his shoulder opened the
trunk of a black BMW.
The cleanup at Krysanova’s house in Alexandria had been fast, the
scene ugly, but all was done in time.
To take care of the last details they had parked here, west of Alexandria,
in the shadow of the freight tracks and the Beltway.
The man hefted the bag into the trunk and slammed it shut.
He looked to Dimitri, who nodded. The man climbed in the car and took
off as a CSX double-decker thundered past.
Dimitri waited for the noise to subside and lifted his phone.
“What’s happening?” Farr asked as soon as she picked up.
“The woman who called for help. I took care of it.”
“She’s . . .” He could hear Farr’s breath picking up, growing shallow.
“That’s right,” Dimitri said. “Where are you?”
“Parking. At work.”
“Can anyone hear you?”
“No.”
“The woman, Krysanova, she wasn’t alone.”
“Did you . . . take care of the other person?”
“No. He escaped. I believe I wounded him.”
“Who was it?” she asked, her voice pained, creaking like someone with
strep throat. Her fear was getting the best of her.
“I don’t know,” Dimitri said. “I’ll handle it.”
“The police?”
“They won’t find anything. Her house is clean.” He paused. “And she
didn’t have the ledger.”
“Damn it!” Farr said.
Dimitri caught the slightest hesitation before her response. Was she
hiding something from him? Or was it simply her nerves?
“No one on your end has learned anything about where it might be?”
Dimitri asked.
“No.”
“Good. We are watching another witness who might have been working
with the Campbells. Katie Chen.”
“I remember her—she was part of the Metro crash investigation,” Farr
said. “But I don’t think you need to do anything. We kept her from looking
too closely into the real cause.”
“Still, she’s a complication. And we don’t have time for any more
complications. We need all the witnesses gone, and there is only one day
left. Where are Peter Sutherland and Rose Larkin?”
“The girl slipped away from her security detail. Peter went to find her.
He’ll tell me where she is.”
“Find him now, and Rose. Tell me where they are, and I’ll take care of
it. We need this all cleaned up by tomorrow night.”
“Both of them?” Farr asked. “Peter could be useful. If any of this gets
out, we can place the blame on him, for the deaths, the train crash, all of it.
People are already suspicious of him because of his father.”
“We can do that just as easily if he’s gone.”
She didn’t answer. He heard those fast, shallow breaths.
“Are you there?” Dimitri asked.
“Yes. I’m . . . it’s so many people who are going to . . .”
All the killing was getting to her. This wasn’t her world.
“It’s just a few more,” Dimitri said. “We’re in far enough that we can’t
stop. If anyone who knows goes public, if that ledger gets out—”
“I know.”
“Tomorrow night. President Vikhrov and President Travers will both be
here. It will happen and then all of this will be over. One more day, and
you’ll be free.”
No answer. She was panicking.
“Where do you go, Diane, when you have time off? When all this is
finished? Take a deep breath and picture it.”
He waited for a moment, then continued. “This will all be over, and
you’ll be there, and none of it will have ever happened. One more day.”
A deep breath. “I’m okay.”
“Don’t go into the West Wing if you can’t keep yourself under control.”
“I’m fine.”
“Tell me if anyone else calls the emergency line. We need all of the
Campbells’ witnesses.”
“I will. I need to go.”
She disconnected. Something was off with her, Dimitri thought, more
than the nerves. Was she holding back something? Did she know where the
ledger was? Did she already have it?
He pinched the bridge of his nose and sat back against the hood of his
Accord. He would need to find out, might need to take care of her as well at
some point. But not tonight. Too many others needed his attention now.
He opened the trunk and from a first aid kit pulled out a bottle of
hydrogen peroxide. He’d already washed his hands, but this would take care
of the last traces of blood. Unlike bleach, it destroyed DNA.
He hummed quietly as he rubbed his palms together and felt the
peroxide bubble and burn.
You are the sunshine of my life . . .
That song had stayed with him for the last week. He hadn’t thought
about it in ages, until he heard it during the surveillance of the Campbells’
house, the night they died.
It had been one of his wife’s favorites. At their summer house, she
would tune into the Western propaganda stations broadcasting rock and roll
into the USSR and try to break him out of his strictly classical tastes.
They would lie on the deep pile carpet and listen for hours. As he
remembered her singing along quietly, her head on his chest, he smiled and
dug the last trace of red out from under his nails.
He checked his knife—clean—slid it back in his sheath, and slammed
shut the trunk. He needed to get moving. It was going to be a long night.
OceanofPDF.com
53
PETER ENTERED THE West Wing and walked down the hall toward
Farr’s office. He had left his car in the garage on G Street, with Krysanova’s
gun locked in the glove box.
The office was quiet, though there was always a handful of staffers
working on the weekend.
Peter looked at the closed door of the Oval Office. Travers would want
to know what was happening, if Peter could get to him. But Peter would
sound like a madman if he charged in now. He needed proof.
The door to Farr’s suite was closed. He walked back down the hall.
“Bear, are you working tonight?” Peter turned to find the uniformed
Secret Service officer who worked the main entrance.
Office chitchat was the last thing Peter felt like doing now, but he
needed to keep up a veneer of normalcy.
“You bet. What could be more fun than a twelve-hour shift on a
Saturday night, right?” he said. That seemed to do it. The guard smiled.
“Have you seen Diane?” Peter asked.
“She went out a little while ago.”
“Thanks,” Peter said and checked the clock.
He went around the corner, swiped his ID in the door to Farr’s suite, and
stepped inside.
She had directed the killer to Krysanova’s house. Every action leaves a
trace. They taught him that at Quantico. Dirt carried from a crime scene in
the seam of a sneaker, a cell phone tower ping, a chemical trace in the
clothes.
Farr wasn’t trained in countersurveillance. She would make mistakes.
Peter needed something to connect her to the crime.
As he passed between the assistants’ desks, he thought through the
timeline. Krysanova’s call to the emergency line had gone to Julian, then
Farr. Did she take the call here? Or was she out? And how did she
communicate her order to the gunman?
The door to her office was open. He stepped inside, past the fireplace
and long conference table on one side of the room, and approached her
desk.
Sneaking into offices, stealing information: he had spent his whole life
recoiling from these crimes, but now, despite the fear of being caught, the
sweat beading on his skin, they brought him a strange thrill. He felt
switched-on, hyperaware of every sound.
He took his cell phone out and shot a video of the gray LCD display as
he scrolled through the call log on her desk phone. Almost all of the
numbers he recognized: 202-456 and 202-395 lines were internal White
House communications. None from area code 571, for Alexandria. She
hadn’t taken the call here. There was no chance she called the shooter from
her office, of course, but now at least he had a record of everyone she talked
to. He doubted she was in this alone. Was Hawkins part of it, too?
Her filing cabinets were protected by a combination dial. He tried the
drawers on her desk. Only one opened without a key, but all it held was a
tidy collection of pens, legal pads, and rubber bands.
Peter eased the drawer shut and stepped away from her desk, then came
back to it and crouched. A charger with cables coming out of its three USB
ports was plugged in to a wall outlet. There was a cable for Farr’s personal
iPhone and a micro-USB for the official encrypted Blackberry he’d seen her
use. But what was the third cable for? Was there another phone?
“Evening.” The words were muffled, distant, but it sounded like Farr,
maybe talking to the guard at reception. He moved quickly out of her office,
but checked himself. He couldn’t be seen sprinting if she came into the
suite.
The door to the hall was open a crack. He was halfway past the
assistants’ desks when he heard Farr’s voice just outside, talking to Julian.
They passed by.
The door didn’t move. Peter waited. He could make out only a few
words of their conversation.
Ten seconds, twenty. He couldn’t see anything through the crack. Had
they moved on?
He wanted to check the phone log downstairs in the Sit Room, and if
Farr was going to find him, better that he be sitting at his desk like a good
soldier. He took three deep breaths, cleared the tension from his face, and
exited into the hallway.
They were gone. He took the long way around and trotted down the
stairs to the Sit Room.
You’re walking too fast, he thought, slowing his steps. He kept his
phone in his pocket and switched it to airplane mode so that the sensors in
the secure area wouldn’t pick up any emissions.
He greeted the other watch officers quickly, went to his workstation,
and sat down. Calls with foreign heads of state were all recorded, but this
line, as far as he knew, wasn’t.
There was a log, however, that might show if the call had come to this
phone before Farr picked it up. He took his cell out again, and, keeping it
hidden close to his chest, took a video of the call log. There it was, on the
night action line, a 571 number. It was Krysanova’s home line. He
recognized it from when he had looked up her business to find her address.
He noted the time. He could put together a sequence. It wasn’t much on
its own, but that was how you build investigations, how you take someone
down: fact by fact. What he wanted was camera footage from Krysanova’s
house that showed the shooter using the signal and a recording of Farr
giving Krysanova that same signal.
That left him to look for communication between Farr and the man who
had hit the house. Peter wondered if he could get any details from the other
staffers, who might have seen her take the call or duck out to give the order.
There were plenty of cameras around this place. If he could find an
authority to look into it, they might be able to piece it together.
His desk phone rang. A red light pulsed above the display, which
flashed the active extension: 2461. It was the emergency line.
A cold feeling ran through him. He checked the incoming number and
lifted the phone.
“Go ahead,” he said.
“H-hello?” the caller said in a tentative voice. At the same time, Peter
heard the door to the Sit Room swing open.
“Yes. Do you have a code?”
Farr walked in.
“Pen. Clock. Door. Fire,” the caller said.
“Who is this?”
“I thought you were supposed to connect me to someone.”
“I’m here to help.”
“The Campbells gave me this number.”
“They’re gone.”
“Someone killed them?” Her voice was faint with fear.
“Yes. Where are you?”
Farr rounded the corner, and Peter stepped against the wall of his
cubicle, keeping his body between the phone and her.
“In Rockville. I’m worried people are following me.”
He craned his neck and saw that she was coming for him. His job was to
pass calls on. There wasn’t a good reason for him to be on one of these
lines, and now was definitely not a good time to be drawing attention to
himself by acting out of the ordinary. But he couldn’t leave a source
twisting in the wind, and he sure as hell wasn’t going to pass this woman on
to Farr. He wanted to hit the white noise, but that would raise her suspicion.
“What’s your name?”
“Katie Chen.”
“Okay, Katie. Go to the police. Can you use your phone to find a station
nearby? If you tell me where it is, I’ll come to you.”
“What’s happening?”
“Did you work with the Campbells?”
“Yes.” She was panicking. Each rapid breath came across like static on
the line. “They wanted to know if the Russians, if they could get to our
infrastructure. If they could control it. If anyone else from the government
had talked to me. Had pressured me.”
“Can you slow down for me, Katie? Control what? Pressured you about
what?”
“Is that what this is about? The accident?” she said between halting
breaths. “It wasn’t an accident.”
“Katie. Tell me where you are.”
“Oh God. I—”
The phone went dead.
“Hello? Are you there?” Desperation tinged Peter’s voice. Another life
was at stake on the end of the line, but Peter was careful not to let his words
rise above a normal speaking tone.
Farr was watching him, walking closer. He should get off the phone, but
he couldn’t leave Chen out there.
“Hello?”
No answer.
“Hello?”
She was gone. Farr waited to his left, leaning against the pillar. She held
a manila folder in her right hand and tapped it against her open left palm as
if she were trying to cut off her fingers.
Peter replaced the phone in its cradle and hit clear on the call log with
his knuckle at the same time.
“Is everything okay?” Farr asked. Peter tried to think. Maybe he could
say he was calling over to the CIA for a quick question about one of his
research jobs, but that would be too easy to disprove.
“I think so. The voice—it was all static. I couldn’t even make out who
they were. I thought maybe they said NSA.”
The NSA was about five times larger than the CIA and much more
opaque. Still, as an excuse it was only slightly better than “wrong number.”
“That is odd. I’ll have the switchboard check it out.”
She stared at the phone for a moment.
“No log?”
Peter checked again. “No.”
“Huh.” She frowned. Peter felt his shirt, damp with sweat, bunch under
his arms.
“How did it go with Rose?”
“We were supposed to meet at the Starbucks in Tenleytown, but she
didn’t show. She must have spooked. I tried to call you but couldn’t get
through.”
After all the years of honesty, of hewing to the truth like a superstition,
it surprised him how easily the deception came, how natural it felt.
“I had to run out,” Farr said.
Out. So maybe there was an in-person meeting, or she left the office to
make contact with the shooter or a go-between.
“Do you think she’ll come around?” Farr asked.
“I don’t know.”
“Jesus. Her and Hawkins.”
“Hawkins?”
“Julian said he told you.”
“Right,” Peter said. “What’s happening? Is he okay?”
“This is strictly between us, understood?”
“Understood.”
“He’s gone without a trace. No signs of violence or duress. Not a word.”
“Like he fled?”
Farr nodded slowly.
“What the hell is going on?” he asked.
“I don’t know but run everything through me now.”
God. Peter had wondered if Hawkins and Farr were both part of this
plot. Maybe Hawkins had run, but Peter felt a wave of nausea as he realized
the other possibility: Hawkins had come close to the truth about Farr and
she had him taken out, too. Was that why she volunteered that he fled? Was
it a way to draw suspicion away from herself?
He took her in: the no-bullshit demeanor, the lips slightly pursed, the air
of absolute competence. This was the woman who never failed to make him
smile with her dark humor, the woman who had given him his chance. How
was she capable of this?
“Are you okay, Peter?”
Had he let the suspicion show? “A little run-down from last night, but
it’s fine.”
“No. Your neck.”
He touched his throat, the bruise from the attack in the hotel. “It’s not so
bad.”
“Not there.” She tapped the side of her neck to indicate what she meant.
Peter reached up to the same spot on his own and felt the slightest
dampness. He looked at his reflection in the glass partition: a drop of blood,
no bigger than a dime, had soaked into the collar of his shirt.
“Shaving,” Peter said. “Rushing out the door.”
Farr let it drop, but she was still looking at him. She went on naturally,
even brightened a bit. “I’m going to be here all night with this Hawkins
thing. I’ll have Julian come in a little early tomorrow. You can head out.”
“I don’t mind.”
“You can’t help me by dying on your feet, Peter. Go home. Get some
rest. I have people out looking for Rose. She’ll be okay.”
Did she know about the injury? Put together that he was at
Krysanova’s? The shooter could have noticed his hand going to his neck as
he ran.
Here he was, with the enemy among the foundations of the White
House, both knowing what was going on, and both of them lying through
their teeth.
Still, some part of Peter couldn’t believe it. It was easier to think that he
was delusional than to accept the facts he had seen and heard.
Treason. But why? It didn’t matter. He knew it was true. He had seen
those headlights flash and seen Krysanova’s life torn away.
Farr couldn’t do anything to him here. What was her plan? To follow
him to Rose? To follow him to any other targets or evidence he had
uncovered? To simply get him far enough away from the White House that
he too could be made to disappear?
A sit-in wasn’t going to help matters, and he needed to move. He
thought of the call from Katie Chen: another witness out there, desperate.
Maybe she had an answer. Some kind of attack was coming, and Peter
would use any room to maneuver. Surely there was someone in authority
who would listen, who would at least consider what Peter had learned.
But Farr must have known that, too. Maybe the shooter would take him
as soon as he was outside these gates.
Peter looked at the clocks. He knew what he had to do.
“I’ll wrap up here,” Peter said.
“Good.” Farr brought the folder to her side. She walked over to the Sit
Room director’s desk, and they began talking.
Was she watching him? That was fine. Peter reached under the file
drawer on the left-hand side of his desk and grabbed his gym bag. He kept
it low, so that Farr couldn’t see it over the desks as he exited the Sit Room,
went upstairs, and then stepped outside into the Rose Garden.
It was game time.
OceanofPDF.com
54
ONCE PETER WAS clear of the colonnade, he dialed the number that
Katie Chen had used, but there was no answer. Then he called Rose.
“Peter, are you okay?”
“Everything’s fine. I found someone else who’s involved in this, a
witness. Katie Chen. Have you ever heard that name?”
“No. But that’s great. Where is she?”
“Rockville. She’s in trouble. She called the emergency line. She said
that she worked with your aunt and uncle, that she knew about their
investigation and maybe what the Russians are up to.”
“Well, what is it?” Her voice was tense, breathless.
“I don’t know. She was cut off. Here’s the number she used.” He read
out the digits. “Can you call her? You can use the night action code to prove
you’re legit.”
“Tell her to stay away from Farr?”
“Yes. She has to get someplace safe. We need to find out what her role
in this is and what she knows.”
Perry, the former body man, was walking at the other edge of the lawn.
He saw Peter and gave him a nod.
“I’m on it,” Rose said. “Did you see Farr?”
“I did.”
“How is she? Does she suspect you know what’s going on?”
That drop of blood. That forced smile.
“I think so.”
“Peter.” Rose’s voice was insistent. “Get out of there.”
The clock was ticking. There wasn’t enough time for a formal request to
an inspector general, even if anyone would believe him, even if he could
manage it without Farr’s knowledge.
“Not yet. There’s someone here I need to talk to.”
That was one of the benefits of having a killer after you, Peter guessed.
It meant you didn’t give a damn about the White House rules.
OceanofPDF.com
55
A CHILL WIND blew from the Potomac, and Peter looked to the windows
of the Oval. They were dark. The president was probably in the residence,
getting ready for the game. Peter could catch him on his way out, cut him
off.
He crossed the garden and waited to ambush President Travers.
He saw the shadows move, the door opening from the White House, and
stepped under the colonnade, eyes ahead, as if he didn’t know the president
was coming his way, flanked by two Secret Service agents.
“Peter,” Travers said and looked at the bag. “Are you playing tonight?”
“Sir. I was going to check with Perry, see if you needed an extra man.”
“Double or nothing?” Travers said with a smile and moved closer. The
agents, as always, trailed silently a dozen feet behind them. Peter’s opener
hadn’t drawn any attention.
“The Cavs game last night got me fired up,” Peter said.
“I know,” Travers replied. “Those last two minutes. Unbelievable.”
Peter stepped beside the president. Some basketball chat was always
welcome. He was inside the bubble that normally protected Travers.
Farr, as chief of staff, could easily hear about anything suspicious in her
West Wing. He didn’t know how this would go, and it was a violation of
every standard of working in the White House, but that didn’t matter now.
“Mr. President,” Peter said quietly as they walked.
Maybe Peter’s tone gave it away. Or maybe it was the floodlights
lighting up the ugly blue bruise on Peter’s throat, but Travers caught on that
something was wrong.
“Is everything all right, Peter?”
Peter glanced at the lead Secret Service agent, Daniel Akana, the barrelchested veteran he knew from the West Wing. He was one of the
supervisors. Travers edged closer.
They were crossing toward the court, where the other players were
gathered under the sodium lights. They were still out of earshot, but Peter
didn’t have much time.
“Sir,” Peter said. “I wouldn’t bring this to you unless it was a matter of
security and there was no other choice.”
“What are you talking about?”
“You know that there is concern about a penetration by a foreign
intelligence service at a high level.”
Travers looked from one side to the other. “Peter. Not in the open. There
are proper channels for this kind of thing.”
“And if my concern were with the channel itself?”
The other players were watching them from a distance now.
The president looked dumbfounded. “Who are we talking about here?”
Peter wanted to pull him aside and tell him the whole story, from
beginning to end, to shout that an attack was coming and people were going
to die. That he had a goddamned traitor in his house.
Bruised, with a trace of blood on his collar, Peter knew what he looked
like: a lunatic. But he needed to move slowly, let the facts speak for
themselves, or else he would end up in a Secret Service interrogation room
or involuntarily committed at St. Elizabeths.
“Diane Farr. I don’t know if you’re aware that I handle communications
about the investigation. It’s eyes-only to her, but information came in that
made it seem that she was involved in the penetration, a suspect herself. I’m
concerned that sources might be in danger, and frankly I wasn’t sure who
else to go to. I wouldn’t come to you unless it was a clear and immediate
threat.”
The Sit Room was one of the few places where a junior employee could
suddenly be called on for advice by the president with no filter between
them. Words like this from a man who sat in that room meant something.
The president didn’t respond. The wind pushed a few leaves past them.
Perry started walking toward them from the court. “What’s going on?” he
asked.
Agent Akana didn’t like this odd sidebar. He edged toward Peter and the
president.
Here we go, Peter thought, wondering whether he’d be better off in St.
Elizabeths or jail.
Travers took another look at Peter’s neck. He took the agents aside, and
Akana spoke to him briefly. Then Travers came back to Peter.
“We can’t talk about this here,” he said. “I’ll have Secret Service take
you someplace safe, put security on anyone who might be at risk.
Everything comes across Farr’s desk, but I can find someone who can
handle this.”
“Thank you, sir.”
“Thank you,” he said and eyed Perry approaching. “Now I know you’re
not a politician, but could you sell it to the guys?” He put on a smile.
Peter nodded and turned as Perry arrived, basketball under his arm and
with another player strolling up behind him. “Are you playing tonight,
Peter?” he said and gave him an easy underhand pass.
Peter caught it, and palmed it, then handed it to Travers.
“I’d love to, but my neck is a little jacked up. I should probably head
home.”
He walked back along the fence toward the pool house, scanning the
long shadows cast by the court floodlights. He looked at the chief of staff’s
office and saw the light was on.
Akana came up beside him as he walked and spoke into his ear.
“Southwest gate. There will be a car.”
Peter nodded and checked his phone for a message from Rose, but she
hadn’t called back. An unmarked Dodge Charger idled in the parking lot for
senior staff, at the edge of the driveway to the southwest gate.
As he moved closer, he saw a Secret Service agent sitting in the driver’s
seat, his window down. He had a hard, professional look despite his baby
face.
“Peter Sutherland?”
“Yes.”
“Credentials.”
He handed over his lanyard, and after a quick inspection of the ID and
his face, the agent nodded his head toward the passenger seat. Peter walked
around the car and climbed in. “Where are we going?”
“North Capitol Annex. It’s a secure site. Akana will meet us there.”
The agent gave Peter another look, up and down, measuring him as if he
couldn’t figure out why he merited this kind of attention.
They turned out of the gate, and Peter watched the White House
disappear in the rearview.
OceanofPDF.com
56
THE CITY ROLLED by outside Peter’s window. The glass towers of the
unions and the lobbying shops on Sixteenth Street gave way to churches
and embassies as they moved out of downtown. They turned right north of
Columbia Heights, into a neighborhood that Peter didn’t know well. Small
row houses passed by and suddenly there was park on all sides, and signs
for the Old Soldiers’ Home.
Through a guarded gate, in a flash of white, he saw an old brick house
on a hill. President Lincoln’s Cottage. He had heard of this place but had
never visited: Lincoln’s summer home during the Civil War, where he
drafted the Emancipation Proclamation. Now it was nestled on the grounds
of the Old Soldiers’ Home, a retirement village for veterans, surrounded by
cemeteries and parks.
They emerged on the other side, on Hawaii Avenue, and pulled up in
front of a midcentury red brick house with a flat roof. It looked like a small
municipal building with its square windows edged in aluminum, but it
seemed to be a residence. It was set on a large lot, cut off from its neighbors
by busy four-lane streets.
The intelligence and national security agencies had lots of these secret
spots around the capital. Across from the Russian embassy in Glover Park
there was a famous surveillance post, a normal-looking home except for the
cameras planted behind every window and the FBI crews within.
The agent led Peter up the stoop and keyed in a code on the door lock.
A small black dome camera hung, barely visible, in a corner above the door.
They stepped inside. The place had the feeling of a little-used vacation
condo: cheap matching furniture from a catalog, old carpet, a stale smell
from disuse and windows that never opened.
A safe house.
“Do you need anything?” the agent asked.
“I’m fine. Sorry, I didn’t catch your name,” Peter said.
“Collins. Justin Collins. Are you all set here?”
Peter looked into the kitchen. “Is someone coming to meet me?”
“That’s what I’m told.”
“All right, thanks.”
Collins held up his keys and moved toward the door. “I’m going to do a
lap around the block, check things out.”
“Sure,” Peter said.
Collins nodded, stepped out, and shut the door. As tired as he was, Peter
was too restless to sit, so he wandered the house, peering out the first-floor
windows beside the drawn blinds.
There were three small bedrooms upstairs, each furnished with a twin
bed, bedside table, and lamp. The only sign that anyone had ever stayed
here were a few paperbacks—Sidney Sheldon and Michael Crichton and
Ron Chernow.
Peter checked his phone again: no word from Rose. He watched the
street, but there was no sign of Collins. He dialed Rose’s number, but his
phone never rang, it just showed the connecting screen. Something was
wrong with the signal.
He walked downstairs and turned the knob on the front door. But when
he pushed and pulled the door wouldn’t budge. There was a dead bolt, but
no twist knob to draw it back on his side, just a hole for a key he didn’t
have.
He crossed the house to the rear door in the kitchen. He seized the knob
and wrenched it, but that got him nowhere. Another dead bolt.
He was locked in.
OceanofPDF.com
57
THIS WAS NO safe house. This was a prison. Peter started back to the
living room.
The lights cut out.
Now he understood: a car had brought him here and left him to cut any
trace to the White House, to hand him over to the killers. Interrogation or
execution: he wondered which would come next.
There was no time to think about that. He had to move. His phone
showed no signal, and the light from its display would serve as a beacon,
marking him out as a target. They would want surprise, so he guessed the
back door would come first. He slipped into the kitchen, feeling along the
wall to find his way. He tried to look out the window, but it was too dark to
make out any clear figures on the grounds.
The faintest whisper of metal on metal came from the rear door: the
lock turning. He stood between the stove and the hinge side of the door. His
fingers touched the cold sheet metal of the stove—a cheap white box like
the one in his apartment. He slid his hand across until he felt one of the
grates and pried it up. He couldn’t remember if there had been anything
sitting on top of the range. One sound could get him killed.
He raised the grate gently, the bright rasp of metal on enamel just barely
audible as the door eased open.
The attacker moved in, no more than twelve inches away on the other
side of the door. Peter kept his mouth open wide enough that his breath
wouldn’t make a noise and lifted the grate up. It felt reassuringly heavy in
his hand.
He hoped his eyes would adjust enough to get a clear look, but the
darkness was almost total. He listened and felt the floor flex through the
soles of his shoes as the man came closer.
Kill the lights. The attackers had done it before, the night they took the
Campbells. The man was moving surely. He probably had some kind of
night optics. As soon as he was around that door, he would take a full scan
of the room and Peter would be done.
The door pulled away from his shoulder, and Peter brought the grate
down edge first like an ax through the dark. It swung through the air,
touching nothing, and then it hit. It was later than he expected, but a solid
blow.
A man grunted and took a heavy step back, but he didn’t fall. Peter felt
the door and pivoted around it. He ran for the outside as a suppressed round
snapped behind him and a red light flared. A bullet slit the air near his head
and he kept on, across the wooden deck.
Streetlights filtered through the trees, strong enough here that he could
make out the silhouette of a man behind him, just as a flashlight beam
flicked on ahead of him, blinding him: another attacker.
Peter was moving fast and already close enough to drop his shoulder
and charge, catching the man ahead in the breastbone and knocking him
against the deck railing. Wood splintered and nails squealed as the man
made a strangled sound. Peter wanted to run, but he caught a glint of light
near the man’s right hand: a pistol.
He grabbed that hand and twisted it back as the man struggled to bring
the gun around to point the muzzle at Peter’s ribs. Peter didn’t have enough
leverage on the man’s wrist, but if he let go to try for a better grip on the
gun, the man would have his chance to shoot.
They stood in a desperate embrace. Peter waited for a shot from behind,
from the man he had attacked in the kitchen. He didn’t know why it hadn’t
come yet; maybe he had dazed that man more than he thought.
Peter bent his knees and then drove forward with everything he had.
The railing let go with a crack like close lightning, and they fell back. The
drop seemed to last for seconds, until Peter landed half on the man as he
thudded against the ground on his back.
Peter felt the gunman’s ribs break against his chest and heard a louder
snap, like a dry stick cracking.
The man’s arm went limp, and when Peter looked at his eyes, they
looked blankly up and to the right. He made no noise, no struggle, and
when Peter put his hand to the ground beside him, he felt something warm.
A black pool grew out from the back of his head, shining in the
streetlights.
Dead.
No time to think. Move. Peter scanned for the gun, saw no sign of it. It
must have tumbled away as they went over the railing. He wanted that
pistol. He wanted to close on the other man in the kitchen. Rage coursed
through his veins like fire, but he heard steps on the deck and knew another
gun was coming behind him. He had to get away.
He pushed himself up to his feet and sprinted flat out, fists pumping
through the air. He leaped high enough to catch the chain-link fence at the
rear of the yard near his waist and threw himself forward, over it, pointing
his head toward the ground. He clawed his fingers through the links on the
far side and swung his legs down, landing on his feet on the grass.
He darted across the street and along the brick sidewalk. A light flashed
from the yard he had just left, sweeping down the street toward him.
Headlights filled the road. A Metro bus was approaching. The lighted
sign above the windshield read Not in Service. The bus would cross
between him and the house in a moment. There was a chance he would
have time to run in front of it, but he doubted it. And even if it did stop,
there was nothing to keep the men chasing him from killing him and the
driver.
The pursuer’s flashlight fixed on Peter as he ran down the street. He was
lit up, exposed, an easy shot. But then the bus passed on the road between
him and the attackers, cutting off the light. He had a moment’s darkness, a
moment hidden from their view.
He cut right, toward a black fence, and hauled himself over. The top of a
picket dragged across his ribs.
He took off through a graveyard and watched as the flashlight scanned
down the street, then turned toward the tombstones and mausoleums. He
ducked against the iron bars of a crypt, felt the cool air embrace him as the
light passed over, and ran on.
From the worn stones, Peter could tell it was a centuries-old graveyard.
He picked his way through the shadows and jumped back. A woman
reached out with one hand as if begging for mercy, her face a green-white
ruin of weathered copper. A statue.
He saw a stand of hedges on a low rise and ran for them. Inside was a
small clearing, with a high-backed stone pew circling one edge. It offered
cover from most sides.
Lights flashed along the branches and marble. It was some kind of
shrine, with another sculpture—the cemetery was full of these figures—a
woman wearing a shroud, looking at him impassively, the fingers of her
right hand held lightly to her face.
The attackers searched near where he had first entered, then seemed to
move on.
He waited a moment longer, his lungs burning and his palms damp with
sweat, then leaned against a crypt wall and let his head fall back.
The president was part of this. There was nowhere he and Rose would
be safe.
The understanding weighed on him like wet clothes on a drowning man.
He saw those blank eyes again, heard the skull crack. He had just killed
someone. The knowledge seemed to grow, from a thought to a feeling, a
numbness running down his spine and through his limbs.
A minute passed, maybe two. Light played down the street. There were
other parks, other places to hide in this oddly quiet hilltop neighborhood.
He could only hope that they had lost him as he ran through the landscaped
hills toward the far side of the churchyard.
OceanofPDF.com
58
DIMITRI STEPPED INTO the backyard of the safe house and shut the
gate behind him. Peter Sutherland had escaped, for now. Dimitri crouched
next to the body, surveying the broken railing of the deck and the pool of
blood soaking into the earth.
The dead man couldn’t have been more than twenty-five. He was
backup. They had worked together a few times before, and he’d been the
second through the door when they hit the Campbells’ house. Dimitri didn’t
know much more about him except that he was a paratrooper and had a son
back home. He never liked to lose a soldier, but at least this boy had died
fighting.
He looked over the caved-in skull with fascination and, despite it all, a
hint of admiration. Farr had told him that Peter was a Boy Scout, easily
handled, but she had clearly underestimated him. Dimitri had tangled with
him in that hotel hallway. He remembered Peter’s eyes under the strobing
lights of the fire alarm, and he recognized a brother, a killer.
This was going to be more interesting than he thought. But he wouldn’t
have to wait long to see Peter again. Dimitri had a good idea where Peter
was going: to Rose. She was somewhere near U Street. They would have
the exact location soon, by tracking her cell phone.
Dimitri lifted the encrypted phone and called Balakin.
“I need more men,” he told his handler. “I need watch teams. I need
hitters.”
He didn’t care if he had to call out every illegal in Washington, flood the
city. Rose and Peter weren’t going to get away.
OceanofPDF.com
59
PETER CREPT THROUGH the alleys between the row houses until he
reached Sixteenth Street, where he hailed a cab. After he gave the address
on Florida Avenue, the driver resumed his phone call, laughing and going
on in a language Peter couldn’t understand.
Peter was glad to be left alone, to find a moment of rest on the vinyl
seat.
They rolled down Sixteenth toward U Street and the house where he
had left Rose. The high walls of Meridian Hill Park climbed to their left.
Red and blue lights flashed, reflecting on the buildings as they neared
Florida.
“Stop,” Peter said.
The man was barely paying attention, and Peter leaned forward and
grabbed his shoulder. “Stop here!”
The driver looked back with an indignant stare. Peter held out a twenty,
more than enough for the fare, and stepped out. This was DC and around
the corner from a police and fire station, so flashers were normal, but
somehow he already knew that the emergency was at the house where Rose
was staying. Had the killers already been here?
Peter’s lungs felt like they were balling up in his chest.
There was a dead body at the safe house on Hawaii Avenue, with his
fingerprints all over it. The police were the last thing he needed, but he had
to make sure Rose was okay. He put his head down and walked on the
opposite side of the street. The lights grew brighter. At the house, the front
door was open, and the woman who owned it was talking to two uniformed
DC police officers.
There was no ambulance he could see, but that didn’t mean Rose was
safe. He didn’t slow or break his stride as he passed the house. If she’d seen
them coming, if she had done what he said, she would have run. There was
no one in the back of the patrol cars, no sign of an EMT inside the house.
If there had been an attack or murder here, there would be a lot more
than two cop cars and a casual interview on the stoop. The police were
looking for Rose. They had found her here. That meant someone had
conducted a credit card search or a trace on her phone or his: a serious
dragnet. He had told Rose that if anyone she didn’t recognize showed up at
the Airbnb rental, she should go to the police, but now he knew she
wouldn’t even be safe at the station.
He reached the end of the block and turned, and started back the other
way on W Street, toward the Third District headquarters. Crossing under a
pale yellow streetlight, he could see the other man’s blood caked on the
back of his hand.
A cruiser rolled by. Peter stuffed his hand into his pocket and walked
toward the station, a two-story building on a dark street with a parking
garage in the back. Two officers approached, talking: a woman carrying a
duffel bag and a man with his thumbs hooked inside his body armor. They
went silent as Peter walked by. He kept his eyes ahead.
If Rose was in the station, he needed to get to her before Farr could. He
reached the corner, and as he neared a high hedge, a hand closed on his
shoulder. He seized it and turned to see Rose’s frightened eyes.
He dropped her hand and exhaled as relief surged through him. “Are
you all right?”
“Yes.” She lowered her voice. “The police showed up and I ran. I didn’t
think I should go to the station, but I knew you would come here.”
She looked at his hand, at the blood. “What happened to you?”
“It’s not mine. Let’s go.”
She nodded and stayed close by his side as they walked south to U
Street, and then west, blending in among the crowds bouncing between the
bars and restaurants.
“How much cash do you have?” he asked.
“Twenty-five.”
“I’ve got eighty, but we should get some more.”
“What’s happening?”
“They’re coming for us. I think Farr might have help.”
Rose looked down for a moment, in shock. It was sinking in: they were
running from the police now, fugitives.
She was tough; it didn’t slow her down for more than a second. “There’s
a Wells Fargo,” she said and pointed across the street.
They ran over through a break in traffic, and Peter dipped his card in the
ATM. They needed money before they tried to disappear. Farr might be
tracking their cards, but she must have already known they were in the
neighborhood. He would risk it before getting out of here.
“Please try again,” the screen read.
He tried his credit card from another bank.
“Please try again.”
“Here,” Rose said, holding hers out.
He dipped the card in. Same message.
Peter’s eyes went to the security camera, then down. He took Rose’s
arm and led her away. As they walked toward Fourteenth Street, he stripped
the back off his phone and pulled out the battery. Rose’s eyes opened wide,
and he held out his hand for her phone.
The battery didn’t come out. He kept walking, looking into trash cans as
he went. He stopped in front of a McDonald’s and reached into the trash.
Among the empty soda cups and water bottles, there was a paper plate with
a piece of foil on it—discarded from somebody’s jumbo slice, the local
drunk food specialty. He pulled out the foil and wrapped her phone in it.
“Seriously?”
He nodded and searched the street for a cab. Rose looked over her
shoulder, rocking slightly, the panic growing.
“Peter, this is . . . what’s happening?” she asked.
He held her shoulders gently and looked her in the eye. “Rose. You did
great at the house. We will get through this.”
“Okay. Okay. What now?”
They needed to get away from their last location, and they needed their
own vehicle. Anything they would likely have keys to would be known to
the authorities soon enough, but they didn’t have enough money to come up
with something else. He would start by getting back to his own car in the
parking garage.
He waited for an independent cab to appear. A Toyota Avalon with
Selam Cab Co. stickers on the side approached, and Peter stepped out into
the street and flagged it down. He and Rose climbed in. Peter wanted the
least tech-forward transportation he could find.
“Eighteenth and G,” he said. A block from the White House.
OceanofPDF.com
60
ROSE AND PETER stepped out of the cab in front of the garage in Foggy
Bottom where Peter had left his car. The ornate facades of the old State,
War, and Navy building loomed to the east, just next to the White House.
This was too close, but he needed his car.
Late on Saturday there wouldn’t be many people around. Peter walked
with Rose past the garage gatehouse and down the narrow pedestrian path
along the concrete wall.
Three floors down, they reached his row. He held his hand back, to
signal Rose to stop. He usually took the Metro to work, so didn’t expect
anyone to anticipate that his car would be here.
An exhaust fan whirred to life behind him, and Peter spun toward it,
hands up.
“What is it?” she whispered.
“Nothing.” He was on edge, looking for a threat in every shadow. “I’ll
go ahead in case they’re sitting on the car. Give me two minutes. I’ll tap the
horn when I’m good.”
“Okay.”
He left her by the elevators and walked along the row toward his Ford.
There was a thick pillar ahead, and he hung back. Something was off. He
scanned the windows of the parked cars, and then caught it in a reflection: a
shadow moving behind a pillar.
He didn’t walk to his car. He stole to the right, hugged the wall, and
circled around the column.
Brian, his friend from the National Security Council, stood there, his
cell phone in his hand, and a pair of Lexus keys in the other. As Peter’s
shadow covered him, his eyes opened wide like a startled deer’s. Had it
only been five days since they were hanging out at the happy hour at Tonic?
It felt like a month.
“Hey, Brian.” He kept his tone calm, as if they were running into each
other in the West Wing hallway, but Brian’s whole body stiffened.
“Peter.”
“Were you hiding?”
“No, I . . .” Brian seemed to search for a good excuse and came up with
nothing.
“If you were,” Peter said, “you’d want to be more careful about your
reflections.” He pointed to the window where he had caught sight of Brian.
Brian smiled weakly. “The things you don’t learn sitting at a desk.”
Brian was an analyst. They wouldn’t have sent him to stake out Peter’s
car. Peter looked down the aisle and saw a Lexus SUV with a Bethany
Beach sticker on the rear window. Brian was just going to his car, and he
must have caught sight of Peter or Peter’s car and been about to call it in.
That meant someone, maybe Farr, must have told everyone Peter
worked with that he was a threat. Everyone would be looking for him.
Peter considered the cell phone. “Why were you hiding?” he asked.
Brian’s breathing picked up and Peter moved a little closer. He was
conscious of his size and usually careful not to intimidate. But now he stood
up straight, shoulders back, the mere fact of him a six-foot-six physical
threat.
“What did they tell you about me, Brian?”
The other man didn’t respond, and Peter moved closer still, looking
down at him now.
“Just that they’re looking for you. You’d mishandled classified
information. People are saying maybe you had something to do with these
deaths.”
“And . . .”
“That was it.” Brian squeezed against the wall. “What are you going to
do . . .” he trailed off, though it was clear where he was going: to me.
Maybe it sounded too pathetic.
“Who were you going to call?” Peter asked.
“Diane Farr.”
It surprised Peter, how quickly he could go in their eyes from colleague
to criminal, but they had never really trusted him. His father’s history had
always colored his own. And now he could see a certain smugness behind
the fear: of prejudice confirmed.
“I’d like to borrow your cell phone,” Peter said. Peter needed time. He
couldn’t let Brian make the call.
Brian found some backbone and straightened up against the wall. Peter
feinted at him, barely an inch at the shoulders, but fast, and any fight went
out of the other man as he cowered back. They already thought he was a
killer—and they were right, he guessed—he might as well take advantage.
Peter reached down, eye to eye with Brian, and took the phone from his
hand. There was no signal in the garage. He couldn’t have called it in yet.
Peter walked backward to his car and beeped the keyless entry.
“It’s not me, Brian. You won’t believe me, but that’s the truth.”
He stepped in and backed the car out, then tapped the horn as he raced
toward the elevators.
He slowed, and Rose threw open the door and jumped in before he even
came to a full stop.
“What was that?”
“Friend from work.” The car’s tires chirped slightly as he raced up the
spiraling route out of the garage and handed Rose his wallet. “Could you
pull thirteen bucks out of there?”
He gave his ticket and the exact change at the booth, and pulled onto the
street.
“Peter. You’re bleeding.”
His ribs. He knew. Just a scrape from the fence. He needed a place to
stop, to think. He needed rest. He had some ideas.
OceanofPDF.com
61
PETER DROVE DOWN Nineteenth Street. It was the first time they had a
moment to breathe, to talk without fear of someone else close by.
“What is happening?” she asked.
“You’re going to think I’ve lost my mind.”
“You can tell me,” she said.
“The president plays basketball with a few of his staffers, and
sometimes I’m in the games.”
Rose’s eyes narrowed. “You talked to Travers?”
“There wasn’t a lot of time. I had to try. I felt him out, about whether I
could raise suspicions about Farr. He was receptive. He told me he’d get me
someplace safe, find someone I could talk to who would be outside of her
influence. An agent, I thought he was Secret Service but maybe he wasn’t,
took me to a house near the Old Soldiers’ Home.”
He stopped for a crew of GW students in the crosswalk.
“It was a setup. They came for me.”
“Who?”
“The same killers. The lights cut out, just like at the hotel.”
“Are you saying the president . . .”
“He must be. She’s his chief of staff. She’s an extension of him at this
point. I should have known. As if she’d be trying to pull something on this
scale by herself.”
Peter drove on. As the Lincoln Memorial rose to their right, Rose
pointed down the National Mall.
“GIDEON,” she said. “We can leave the signal tonight for a meeting,
like in Krysanova’s notes. The carousel, it’s right down there.”
“We don’t know who he is or who he works for.”
“We’re going to have everyone looking for us,” Rose said. “We need
help.”
Peter cut into the left lane and turned onto Constitution.
“If we signal him tonight, when do we meet?” Rose said.
He checked the clock. “If it works, seven o’clock tomorrow morning in
Rock Creek Park.”
Rose watched the trees and tourists whip by as Peter crossed the Mall
heading south on Fourteenth Street.
“Here,” she said, and he turned left down a one-way street. The red
sandstone Castle of the Smithsonian rose to their right.
“That’s it,” Rose said, pointing to the blue and yellow circus top of the
old carousel, closed for the night. “Slow down.”
He pulled over in front of a row of parked cars, his front tires in the
crosswalk. A green hydrant stood twelve feet from them. “You remember
how to leave the signal?”
“A vertical scratch through the O,” she said, her fingers on the door
handle.
“I’ll look out.”
Rose stepped onto the curb, with her keys in her hand, and walked
across the wide path.
She barely broke stride as she brushed by the hydrant, then walked six
feet past it. After a moment to admire the strange Gothic towers of the
Castle, she came back.
“Got it,” she said.
Peter glanced at the hydrant as he pulled out. No one would pay a
scratch any mind, just wear and tear, unless they were looking for it.
“Nicely done.”
He headed for the Fourteenth Street Bridge, passing the Tidal Basin and
the Jefferson Memorial, then followed the exit toward the George
Washington Memorial Parkway South, and Alexandria. As he drove, he
noticed that Rose was studying his hand.
“Where did all the blood come from, Peter?”
He stared ahead at the road, thinking of the sickening crack of that
man’s skull against the ground. He didn’t answer.
“Did you get through to the woman who called on the emergency line?”
he asked. “Chen?”
Rose watched him for a long moment and let her question drop.
“No,” Rose said. “I looked up everything about her that I could find.
She works at Heller and Wolff. She’s an intellectual property, IT, and
corporate security specialist. Does that mean anything to you?”
“Heller and Wolff is a massive law firm. They do a lot of government
work.”
He told Rose about everything Chen had said on the phone: Russians
going after infrastructure, an accident that wasn’t an accident.
The answer was there, he knew, but it wouldn’t come. He was too tired
or tweaked to put it together. Still, Chen was their best hope.
A cop car appeared behind an overpass: a speed trap. Peter and Rose
both sat back, rigid, eyes ahead as Peter watched the car recede in the
mirrors.
Rose swallowed. “Is he coming?”
“No,” Peter said.
Rose lowered her head. “Everyone is after us.”
“We have to assume so.” Peter had spent years watching, closing in on
criminals. Now he was the target. His hand shook and he gripped the wheel
harder.
As they neared Alexandria, he turned down a street that looked straight
out of the fifties: bungalows and streets with no curbs or sidewalks.
Ahead in the fog, he saw what he wanted: wire wheels sticking out from
under a car cover. There were no lights on in the house. He parked, then
unlocked and opened the glove box. Krysanova’s pistol was sitting on top
of his registration. He reached past it and took out the Leatherman multitool he kept in the car.
He picked this neighborhood because on the backstreets there were
older houses and older residents, Sunday drivers. Cars would sometimes
park here, too, for the short subway ride to Reagan National airport, to beat
the long-term parking fees. It was a good spot to find clean plates that
wouldn’t be missed for a few days.
“Are you going to steal a car?”
“I’m not a thief,” he said, surprised by the sharpness in his voice. Then
he looked down at the tool in his hand. He knew all of this from chasing
thieves. A car, plates. Either way he was still stealing. At this point he
didn’t know who he was or what he was capable of.
“Just the plates.”
He stepped out of his car and walked around to the front of the other
car, raised the cover, and removed the two Phillips head screws holding the
plate on. Rose got out of Peter’s car and walked behind the covered car,
returning a minute later with the rear plate in her hand and her keys
dangling from her fingers. She must have used the tip of a key on the
screws.
They swapped the plates between the two cars, mounting Peter’s on the
vehicle under the cover.
“Won’t that let them know who to look for, if they can ID our plates?”
“Yes. But it’ll buy us time. I’ve worked cases like this before. People
sometimes don’t notice until the registration expires or they get a ticket.
How often do you check your own plates?”
He started his car and drove south through Alexandria.
“Are you sure you’re okay?” She was looking at his shirt, the bloodstain
on his ribs.
“It’s fine,” he said. “Cuts and bruises.”
“Is there anyone we can go to, anyone who would believe us?”
“Not without proof. We need to find Chen. She’s the last witness we
know of. We need to get to her before they do.”
A pair of Golden Arches rose through the fog ahead on the right, and Peter
pulled off the highway and into the parking lot.
“Here?” Rose asked.
“They usually have a pay phone, and free Wi-Fi.” Only the drivethrough was open. Inside the chairs were flipped upside down on the tables.
Peter took the SIM card out of his phone and put the battery back in
place, then powered it up. This way it would act like a Wi-Fi-connected
tablet and be harder to trace. He wouldn’t get calls, but he could check his
voicemail over Wi-Fi by using an app on his phone. After the phone turned
on, he glanced at the app, but there were no new messages.
He lifted the center console of his car and pulled out a handful of
quarters. He and Rose went over to the pay phone. He handed her his cell
and asked her to check the local news sites for any mention of the attack on
Hawaii Avenue, or any sign that the police had issued an alert with their
descriptions. He lifted the pay phone and dialed the number Katie Chen had
called from.
It rang five times, and then a low voice came on the line. “Hello.” It was
a man’s voice: officious, busy, and slightly pissed. In the background Peter
heard sirens, and the crunchy voices of radio communications. Cops at a
crime scene. He put his hand on the cold metal side of the pay phone, to
steady himself.
“Yes. I was trying to reach Katie Chen.”
“Who is this?”
They would want to know who was calling and would want more
answers than he could give. He had a suspicion of what had happened to
Chen, but if he just played along as a friend they wouldn’t tell him what he
needed to know.
“This is Officer Cruz with the Arlington County Police Department,”
Peter said. “We have a warrant out for Ms. Chen for failure to appear.”
“I wouldn’t hold your breath. What was the charge?”
“Speeding violation.” He didn’t want to throw off the investigation, but
it was the only way he would get a straight answer.
“She’s dead.”
Peter kept the emotion out of his voice.
“Since when?”
“Maybe an hour. Mugging. Did she have any other warrants?”
“No.”
The detective, a man named Swinson, gave Peter his information and
told him to call if anything else came up.
Peter hung up the phone, and Rose looked at him expectantly.
“They killed her,” he said in a flat tone. His eyes went to the ground, the
weeds coming up through the cracked asphalt.
“What?”
“That was the police. They had her phone.”
They were closing in, killing everyone. He and Rose were the last ones.
“How did she die?”
“A mugging. That’s what the cop said. But they murdered her.”
Rose looked across the lot, eyes unfocused, her breath coming in jags.
“What are we going to do, Peter? Where can we go?”
Standing in this lot, the smell of fry grease in the air, he felt the same
cold desperation, but his was shot through with rage. He wanted at these
people. He felt like he would blow if he didn’t move, didn’t smash a
window or tear that goddamn phone from the wall. He drove his nail into
his knuckle, felt the stab of pain. He needed to think clearly.
He reached out for Rose’s arm, to calm her down. He knew where they
could go.
Before he could speak, his phone buzzed in her hand.
Rose looked at the screen. “It says there’s a new voicemail,” she said.
“Someone named Leah.”
She handed him the phone and he played back the message.
“Peter, it’s me.” His ex-fiancée. He shut his eyes. God it felt good to
hear her voice. “I know we haven’t talked in a while, but can you call me
back? I’m worried about you.”
He lowered the phone.
“Who was it?” Rose asked.
“A friend.” He lifted the pay phone. How did Leah know about this?
Had someone threatened her? She was in New York. How could they have
possibly gotten to her this fast?
Leah picked up on the third ring, a wary edge to her voice. “Hello?”
“It’s me. Are you okay?”
“Yes. Thank God. What about you? Are you in some kind of trouble?”
“I’m fine. This is all a misunderstanding. Did someone talk to you?”
“Someone from your office called and asked if I’d seen you or heard
from you.”
“Who?”
“I don’t know. They said they were from the White House.”
“What did you tell them?”
“That I hadn’t. Where are you, Peter? Do you need help?”
He needed money. A place to sleep. A different car. Where are you,
Peter? Do you need help?
“Who talked to you, Leah? Do you remember his name?”
“Let me help you. Where are you?”
“You’re in New York?”
“Yes, but I want to help.”
It was the second time she had asked for his location. Why that detail?
She was so far away.
“Peter, please—”
He hung up but held the handset for a moment while he looked at the
ground. She was helping them track him down.
Five years together. He thought back to the moment he put the
engagement ring on her finger during a cloudy Big Sur sunset, remembered
getting caught in a downpour on the trail back down the mountain, Leah
laughing, not caring at all.
And now she thought he was a traitor.
Rose moved closer to him. “Are you okay?”
“Yes,” Peter said. He let his hand drop and killed that memory.
Sentimentality wasn’t going to get him out of this.
“Who was that?”
“Nobody. We should go.”
OceanofPDF.com
62
WASHINGTON LOOKED SO small in the distance as they crossed the
Potomac on the Wilson Bridge, entering Maryland.
“They’re watching your apartment?” Rose asked.
“I have to assume.” His mind went back to the last summer with his
father: the day agents came to the house with a warrant, and he and his
mother sat at the kitchen table while the FBI searched the house.
“That phone call was from my ex.”
“Girlfriend?”
“Fiancée. Long story. It sounded like someone called her and tried to
get her to help find me. They’re covering all their bases. Do you have
everything you need? Medications? We have to go to ground.”
“My stuff’s back at the hotel, but I’ll be fine.”
Peter was surprised again at how comfortable she seemed to be with
running, how adaptable. Her eyes went back to his hand, the blood like rust
around his fingernails.
“I killed a man,” he said. “I didn’t mean to but I did. He was going to
shoot me and I tackled him and his head hit the ground.”
She swallowed and looked straight ahead for a moment. “Are you
okay?”
The rush of running, of escaping had tapered down and he was feeling
almost human.
“I’m fine.” He let out a breath, a disbelieving sigh. “I don’t feel
anything.”
“Shock.”
“Maybe.”
He knew that wasn’t it. The threat had come, and he had done what
needed to be done. He had never killed someone. He had never really even
hurt anyone. Hanging out after practice, when other kids would start to
mess with him, he would always tie up, grapple, or walk away rather than
fight. He was so much bigger, he never worried about winning; he worried
about hurting the other kid.
But everything that had happened at that house, and back at the hotel,
had come so easily, so naturally. He was good at it. Surviving, maybe
killing. There were parts of him he had always kept in check, always
bounded by the rules. Now he was scared what he might find as he crossed
those lines.
He had no idea who GIDEON was, but if a veteran like Emily
Krysanova was afraid of him, he was formidable. Peter wanted to do this
the honest way, hated having to deal with someone like that.
But he had no other choice. The Russian president would be here in less
than twenty-four hours. The deadline was tomorrow. They were out of time.
If the signal they left for GIDEON worked, it was eight hours until the
meeting with him in the park, and they needed a place to lay low. Peter
could take them to Joust, his godfather’s boat. There was nothing to connect
him to it. It would be safe for the night. He drove along the Potomac toward
Fort Washington and saw the lights of a 7-Eleven ahead.
Peter picked up toothpaste and toothbrushes, two prewrapped
sandwiches, instant coffee, and bananas. He found Rose in an aisle near a
small section of soup cans. She took two off the shelf.
“Great,” Peter said. “There’s a stove on the boat.”
He pulled a prepaid cell phone off a shelf and looked over their haul,
tabulating the total and then thinking through how much cash was left. The
cab rides had been expensive, and once they ran out of money they were
done. While Rose was looking the other way, he put his can back on the
shelf, went to the counter, and checked out.
Fifteen minutes later, they were at the marina. It was little more than a
row of docks and a long parking lot with a bar and crab shack now closed
for the winter. Peter had never seen a guard there. Old watch-key boxes
hung at the end of each dock, but there was rust on the chains. Even if
someone came along, two people on a sailboat with no signs of forced entry
was easily explainable.
After Rose got out of the car, Peter took the pistol from the glove box
and slid the magazine out in his hand. There were small holes to check how
many rounds remained: eleven.
He replaced the magazine, chambered a round, slipped the gun in his
belt, and untucked his shirt over it.
He led Rose down the dock and pulled the stern line to bring Joust up
close. The tide was low, and Rose stepped down to put one foot onto the
railing, then hopped onto the fiberglass seats of the cockpit. Peter handed
down the bag from 7-Eleven and came aboard.
A combination lock secured the companionway that led into the cabin.
He dialed in the numbers. The wheel turned with difficulty, but when he
pushed in the brass shackle, it popped back out, open. They’d had the same
combination since he was ten.
He lifted out the piece of wood that covered the companionway. The
motions were automatic and brought back memories of summer afternoons.
Peter didn’t think of them much anymore; all the joy was now cut
through with the doubts about what had been going through his father’s
mind when he stared out over the river.
A faint smell of brine and mildew rose up.
“The yachting life,” Peter said as he clambered down the steep steps
into the cabin.
“I’ll take it,” Rose replied.
She followed behind him while he switched on the batteries and hit the
overhead light. It came on with a reluctant fluorescent buzz. He sat down
and put his head back, relaxed for the first time in fifty hours. He shut his
eyes, and three inches of foam cushion over marine plywood felt like a bed
at the Four Seasons.
He was crashing, exhausted. There was a pop and the smell of sulfur hit
his nose. Rose was at the stove, a match between her fingers.
“The pump is down there,” Peter said, leaning forward. “It’s an alcohol
stove.”
“I’ve done some time in trailers. You take it easy.”
The smell of tomato sauce filled the cabin, and for the first time, it
seemed, Peter could feel the pain of his encounters. His ribs were
screaming. As he tugged his shirt away from his skin, the pain spiked. He
gritted his teeth and let the shirt fall back. He would deal with that later.
Rose came over to the table with two plastic bowls full of SpaghettiOs
—she’d split the can—and two of the sandwiches.
“You should have all the soup,” he said, looking at one of the bowls,
and slid onto the bench at the table. “I’m okay.”
“You need to eat.”
She took a bite, and he tried a spoonful. Salty mushy nothingness, with
a beef flavor mixed in.
“Holy shit that’s good.”
“Right?” she said, the corner of her mouth ticking up. “I grew up on this
stuff.”
He opened one of the sandwiches and bit off a corner. It was chicken
salad, more mush, but he was grateful for it.
Peter sat back. “How are you holding up?”
Rose thought for a moment. “I’m just going with it. Everything has
been so upside down since that night at my aunt and uncle’s house. I guess I
got used to it, or numb. And growing up was . . . rough sometimes. My
mom and I did our share of running around . . .” She shifted on her seat like
she didn’t want to talk about it. “I’ve been through a lot. I’ll be all right.”
Peter nodded and a moment of easy silence passed. “I know you will,”
he said.
After he scraped the last bits of soup from his bowl, he took his and
Rose’s dishes back to the sink.
“Jesus, Peter.”
He turned his head. “Huh?”
“You’re bleeding.”
He nodded slowly, like somebody acknowledging that the dog needed to
be taken out, but not wanting to do anything about it. Rose pulled a first aid
kit from the navigation station, and then dampened a bundle of paper towels
at the sink.
“Here,” she said and sat on the long bench, with the kit on her lap. Peter
joined her. The cut was high, halfway up his ribs.
“Take that off,” Rose said, eyeing his shirt.
“This was your plan all along?”
“What?”
“Just trying to get my clothes off?”
She let out an incredulous laugh. “Try flirting with me when you’re not
covered in blood, okay?”
He took the pistol out of his waistband and laid it on the table, then
pulled his shirt off, fast, and hissed from the sting. It was a black bruise
with a two-inch-long cut at the center, not deep but also not clean. Rose
wiped away the dried blood, and then, without a word, cleared the other
man’s blood from his hands. For that part she avoided his eyes.
She dabbed Neosporin on his ribs and then laid a wide bandage over it.
Peter watched her, and when she was done she turned her face up. His
body was wrecked, and the fear pressed in on him like damp DC heat, but
still he found himself smiling at her.
She smiled back and leaned against the cushion. As she rested her head,
her eyes eased shut. It looked like all the life had drained out of her. A gust
of air pushed in through the open hatch, and the hairs stood up on Peter’s
skin. Rose crossed her arms over her chest and fought back a shiver.
“Here,” he said. He pulled a faded blanket down from the shelf behind
him and draped it over her.
Peter sat, and for the first time since he’d been jumped at Rose’s hotel
he tried to rest, to put aside for a moment the endless calculation of what to
do next and how to survive.
The adrenaline had run out. Now they were left with the facts: he had
been betrayed by everyone he had once trusted and the only thing he had
ever believed in. They were alone, broke, and cold.
“Are we safe here?” she asked.
The truth was that nowhere was safe. “We just need a few hours to get
some sleep.”
“But what now? They killed everyone.”
“GIDEON.” Throwing in with a spy. Becoming everything Peter had
spent his life trying to avoid. “We’ll talk to GIDEON.”
She shook her head slightly, and her face was grave. GIDEON was a
slender reed. But it was all they had.
“You should try to sleep,” he said and looked to the forward cabin.
“Not by myself.”
He took her by the hand.
At the front of the boat there was a V-berth, a low-ceilinged space lined
with cushions that doubled as a bed. He helped her up. On the narrow
shelves on the wall were old nylon and knit-cotton blankets, the same ones
his mom and dad would bundle him under when they did overnights at
Mattawoman Creek. He pushed aside his old life preserver and took down
both blankets.
“I’ll be right back. I’m going to lock up.”
She nodded and pushed back into the berth. Peter cleaned the dishes
quickly, shut the companionway and padlocked it from the inside. He came
back to the sleeping area, put the gun on the shelf that ran along the side,
and raised himself onto the platform. Rose was already lying down.
He lay beside her on his good side, and she pressed against him, laying
her head on his chest, wrapping her arm around his waist.
“Are we going to be okay?”
He had told her he wouldn’t lie to her, and he wouldn’t.
“I won’t let anyone hurt you.”
She didn’t say anything for a moment, then he felt her chest hitching as
she cried in silence. He held her tight, and she grabbed his shoulder, pulled
his face toward hers, and kissed him, brought him in desperately.
He felt her tears cold against his cheeks, although by now she had
stopped crying. There was no intimation of sex to any of it, just closeness, a
closeness like he’d never felt, as if they had known each other for decades,
had built a quiet love over years.
He put his arm around her, her head resting on his shoulder, and ran his
hand over her hair.
They stayed like that for a long time. Her breaths became slow and
even. She was out.
As tired as he was, real sleep never came, just hours of Rose’s chest
rising and falling against his as the boat creaked along the pilings.
He knew the threat was closing in and waited for the light to come.
OceanofPDF.com
63
THE DAWN WAS a faint glow through the fiberglass hatch overhead.
“Rose,” he whispered, and she answered him in a clear voice, as if she
was already awake.
“Yes?”
“It’s time to go.”
She kissed him again and put her hand to the side of his face, took him
in warmly. “You’re a good guy, Peter.”
He was starting to have his doubts. She made it sound like high praise,
like she hadn’t known such a thing existed.
They went into the main cabin, and Peter started a kettle of water and
opened the companionway six inches. Rose looked over a few snapshots
that were tucked into the nav station, leaned in toward a photo of Peter,
maybe ten years old, fishing with his godfather and his dad.
The instant coffee was bitter, but the caffeine and the sunlight made him
feel a hundred times better than he had last night.
They climbed out of the cabin and sat in the cockpit. The warmth of the
enamel mug seeped into his hands.
Wisps of fog floated toward them over the river. The water was a
blanket of silver.
“Why are you doing this, Peter?”
He cocked his head. “Doing what?”
“Why did you trust me? Why didn’t you tell your bosses where I was? It
was your job. You went against them.”
“You were right.”
“I still don’t get why.”
He watched the waves lap against the breakwater.
“I looked you up when I was at the Airbnb,” she said. “You were in that
train crash last year.”
“You read the thing in the Post?”
“‘Rescue on Train 2561.’”
“That article.” Peter shook his head. “They didn’t spend a lot of time
talking about all the people who died after I got out.”
“You did everything you could.”
“It wasn’t enough.”
“I read about your dad, Peter.”
He took a long breath in. This was always the worst moment. When do
you tell somebody who you are? How do you talk to them after they find
out?
“Is it true? Was he a spy?”
He looked at her, looked for the distrust. Even Leah, his fiancée, had
flashed it at times. But Rose showed no sign.
Peter saw them again: all the embassy sources working for American
intelligence whose identities were leaked to the Russians during his father’s
scandal.
Most were executed quietly, but one couple—a man and a woman—was
taken on the street after they returned to Russia. Maybe to make an example
of them.
Kremlin thugs shot them on the steps of their apartment building. Their
kids found them lying across the stoop, keys in hand and groceries spilled
out in the snow.
The next day, Peter made his confirmation. His dad stood with him up
on that altar, swearing before God to live a faithful life. In the middle of all
that.
“I don’t know,” Peter said. “He died before he could tell anyone, before
anything was proven.”
That was a hard summer. News trucks camped out on their street.
Photographers stuck their cameras in the windows if he and his mother tried
to get some sunlight. Peter read the news, knew the rumors. He couldn’t
stand to be in the same room as his dad, couldn’t stand to talk to him,
couldn’t sit across the table from him and listen to him chew.
“He called me the night he died,” Peter said. “I think he wanted my
help.”
Peter dragged his nail along the side of his finger, caught himself, and
stopped. He was pushing back against the memory, not wanting to relive it
again.
Rose saw the gesture but looked up quickly. “What did he say?”
“I was out. Things were tough at home when all that was happening,
tense. My mom went to stay at her sister’s. I would sneak out and go play
ball. Free throws, practice drives, whatever. I’d spend hours at this
playground that was through the woods behind my house.
“When I got home, he wasn’t there. But there was a message waiting on
the cordless phone. It was so strange. My father called his own house and
left a message for me. His voice was breaking. He said he was proud of me,
and he loved me.” Peter stared at the water. “That was it.”
“The last time you heard from him?”
“Yes. I listened to it twice, and then my mom came home and told me
he was gone.” Peter shook his head slowly. “It was a car crash. He’d been
drinking. No one ever figured out if it was deliberate or not.”
They sat close, and she laid her palm on his thigh. The intimacy felt like
the most natural thing in the world.
“Do you think he wanted to say something?”
“Maybe he wanted to confess. Or deny it. Or just ask for help. I put a
decent face on it, but I think he must have known that all those suspicions,
they were getting to me, too. I didn’t trust him.”
“Peter.”
He nodded slowly. He knew what was coming.
“Peter, you can’t take what happened to him on yourself.”
“I know. I’ve tried. For years.”
“So when I called for your help . . .”
“That’s right.” He took a deep breath. He couldn’t let it go unanswered,
couldn’t walk away no matter what it cost him.
He didn’t know what was driving him: that call from his dad, those
voices on the Metro crying out in pain, the lives that were lost because of
his father’s scandal.
He’d spent his whole life thinking that if he just played by the rules he’d
be okay. He could make up for his father’s sins. Honesty would save him.
The truth would save him. And that had brought him here: a hunted man, to
all the world a traitor just like his father.
Peter drained his mug. The only thing that mattered was that they get
through this.
“Running,” he said. “It doesn’t seem to faze you.”
Rose leaned back and thought about it.
“Growing up, we were always running from the landlord, or some
boyfriend of my mom’s, or someone she’d ripped off. She wasn’t even at
Henry and Paulette’s funeral. She had some excuse, something about her
passport.”
“Where is she?”
“Belize, I think. Some guy with a boat.” She laughed. “I hope it’s a
nicer boat. I don’t even know if she can come back to the States. I heard her
on the phone once talking about back taxes, warrants. I guess, growing up
like that, I should have learned your lesson. Just be honest. But that’s not
what happened. Forget the rules. Forget the truth. You do what you have to
do to survive.”
The words hung in the air. Peter did what he needed to do last night. He
killed a man, and he expected that knowledge to come at him like a
hangover: a sick feeling of pain and remorse. It didn’t.
He’d been so careful for so many years, doing everything right,
following every rule. He knew part of the reason why: he was afraid of
what would happen if he strayed, afraid of finding out that he was his
father’s son, an all-American face wrapped around something ruthless,
dark, and lethal. And now he took that inheritance as a gift. He needed to
survive.
“I’ll give that a try,” Peter said.
“We could run.”
Peter shook his head.
“No. They’re afraid of something, scared enough to kill, to risk
everything. We get that truth, and we go straight at them.”
“Will that work?” she asked. “Won’t they lock us up, or pin it on us, or
kill us?”
“They’ll try. They’re going to try either way. Our only option is to make
a lot of noise on the way. But you should go, Rose. If they come after me,
they could get you as an accessory. You should say I coerced you, that you
had no idea what I was up to.”
She tipped her coffee cup back and emptied it, then let it hang from her
finger while she looked across the river.
“No. I owe them this. I’m not going to let them die for nothing. I don’t
want to talk about what could happen. I don’t want to think about it.”
Rose stood. “Let’s go.”
OceanofPDF.com
64
ON THE WAY back into DC, they stopped at a 7-Eleven and picked up a
second prepaid cell phone. Peter was now down to twelve dollars and the
change in his car. He was going into the meeting with GIDEON alone at
first, to make sure it was safe, and needed a way to communicate with Rose.
Rose powered up the phone as they passed the National Arboretum and
the crumbling kilns of the old brickworks beside it.
Peter pulled up to a red light. A Metropolitan Police Department cruiser
stopped in an oncoming lane, fifty feet away. Peter pressed back in his seat
as he saw the cop look in his direction. Did they have a description of his
car? Find the stolen plates?
“You see him?” Rose whispered.
Peter nodded. The light turned green, and he eased the gas down and
drove on, watching the patrol car disappear in his side-view mirror. It
stopped at the next intersection, just barely visible, but Peter saw it make a
U-turn, following him now.
Rose’s eyes were on her mirror. “Is he coming for us?”
“I don’t know,” Peter said. He looked ahead to the next intersection,
saw a box truck in the right-hand turn lane, and accelerated toward it. The
cop was two long city blocks back.
“Hang on to the handle,” Peter said and gripped the wheel. He waited
for the truck to swing wide to make the turn, pulled ahead of it, then cut it
off and took the right turn himself. The truck shielded him from the view of
the patrol car.
He drove on the side streets and cut back under the elevated train tracks
where a red light stopped him. The tracks overhead formed a kind of low
tunnel. He could see a few bedrolls stashed behind the support beams.
“Is he gone?” Rose asked.
“I think so.” A train rolled above them and the grind and creak of the
rails swallowed up his words. He remembered the screaming wheels of the
Metro on the day of the crash, felt the heat at his back, the fumes in his
throat, the voices echoing from the tunnel.
“Peter,” Rose said, but he could barely hear her. A horn blared behind
him. The light was green. He pulled out.
The Metro. That was the answer. He looked to Rose.
“The firm where Chen worked, Heller and Wolff, I know why that name
jumped out at me. They investigated the Metro crash.”
“Your crash?”
“Yes.” Peter drove on, ready for a cop car to come speeding up at any
moment, sirens blaring.
He turned the wheel to the right and drove into a parking lot with a
Safeway and a Golden Corral, then pulled up outside a Starbucks.
“Shouldn’t we keep going?”
“Yes, but I need to see something.” He turned his phone and connected
to the Starbucks Wi-Fi.
It took a moment of searching, eyes darting back and forth between the
phone and the street, to find the final report on the Metro crash. Chen’s
name was on one of the last pages.
He handed Rose the phone and sped out of the parking lot.
“Chen was on the team that investigated the crash,” he said. “The
agencies farmed it out to her law firm. She did the computer forensics.”
“But doesn’t this say the crash came from neglect? Bad maintenance
and worn-out equipment?” she said.
“That’s bullshit. When I talked to Chen on the emergency line, she said
the Campbells were asking her about infrastructure, and how it could be
controlled. Or hacked. She said that there was an accident that wasn’t an
accident. What if it’s the train crash? What if the Russians sabotaged the
Metro? They could have done it with a cyberattack, could have broken into
the system.”
“Why would they kill innocent people?”
“The crash was a month before the election, the night of a big foreign
policy speech by Travers’s opponent. She used to be the head of Homeland
Security. That rally was supposed to make her look tough, like a real
commander in chief. What if in the middle of it, the Metro gets wrecked by
a cyberattack?”
Rose considered it. “She looks weak, it hurts her in the polls, Travers
pulls ahead. That happened in the first few days, I remember, until it started
to look more like an accident. Besides, the train crash wasn’t what really
hurt her right before the election, it was the fund-raising stuff. The financial
scandals.” She shook her head. “I don’t know, Peter. And do you really
think that Travers would let all those people on the train die just to make
Gibson look bad?”
Peter palmed the wheel through a right turn. “No. But that system is a
mess. Maybe they didn’t mean for it to be that bad. We know Farr is
working with the Russians. Let’s say they plan a cyberattack, nothing lethal,
just a show of force, to embarrass Gibson and help Travers win the
election.”
“Do they have that capability?”
“Absolutely. They could stop the trains, shut out the lights, cause panic,
whatever. They could cover their tracks, make it look like an accident or
even make it look like another country was behind the attack: North Korea,
Iran.”
Rose leaned forward in her seat. “And their show of force spirals out of
control?”
“Right. They didn’t mean for it to get that bad, but the Metro is falling
apart. The conductors can barely keep those trains from bursting into flames
as it is. On that system, any kind of cyberattack could quickly cascade into
a disaster.”
“And then the investigation finds no foul play.”
“The Russians would have had to hide their role from the start, and if
his campaign were involved somehow, Travers would have to help cover up
what really happened. The investigation didn’t really get going until he was
in office.”
“Chen said she was pressured. Did she say by who?”
“No. But it must have been Farr or someone else in the administration,
keeping her away from the true cause of the crash. She was suspicious, and
somehow your aunt and uncle found her or she found them.”
Rose looked down. “And if Travers was elected after being complicit in
that attack—”
“The Russians would own him, a sitting US president.”
“They had to make sure he won. Remember all those scandals that came
out about his opponent’s inner circle in the final weeks of the election?”
“It was a lot of good reporting but it could have been seeded by the
Russians. Kompromat they call it—compromising material, dirt. They could
have gotten it through hacking. They made sure she lost.”
“But the deadline is today. If the attack already happened, what is this
all building up to?”
“Vikhrov is on his way from New York. The foreign minister is already
here. What if they’re going to meet with Travers? They could ask him to
pay them back for handing him the election, to give them something they
want.”
Peter thought of those Russian troops massing along Europe’s border.
“But what are the Russians after?” Rose asked.
“I don’t know. The US has kept Russia’s military in check in Eastern
Europe and in Syria. Maybe tonight Travers stands down and lets them
attack, take what they want. The train crash could have been just the
beginning of the violence.”
Rose chewed on her thumbnail and looked out the window. “This is
fucking crazy.”
“I agree. But it’s the first time any of this makes sense. The red ledger
must have contained proof of the arrangement. That’s why they need it gone
and everyone who knows about it dead.”
“By tonight.”
“If it went public, it would blow up their deal.”
Peter looked at the clock and pressed the pedal down. He needed to
make that meeting with GIDEON.
Rose held her palm to her forehead and took a deep breath. “We don’t
have enough time.”
“We have to try. We’ll talk to GIDEON. Krysanova and Novikoff
thought he could help expose all this, maybe help find that ledger. Maybe
he knows the truth. Maybe he has some evidence. Maybe he can point us to
people who do. We’ll see what he has to offer.”
“And how do you know he won’t try to kill us, too?”
Peter glanced at the rearview.
“I don’t.”
OceanofPDF.com
65
THE NOTES THAT Rose had retrieved from Emily Krysanova’s house
laid out all the details of the meeting site. To find it, Peter drove deep into
Rock Creek Park, a 1,750-acre expanse of woods, creeks, and boulders that
cut the District almost in half. Hidden within it there were homeless
encampments and mostly forgotten ruins of forts from the Civil War.
They cruised along Beach Drive, past Peirce Mill, a nineteenth-century
stone landmark. Peter’s whole body tensed as they went by the US Park
Police headquarters, then crossed the creek.
Storms had raised the waters and they rushed and splashed over the
rocks. The sounds of the city disappeared. He parked near a picnic site with
a stone grill, and then he and Rose looked over the notes from Krysanova.
They stepped out of the car, and Peter pointed down a horse trail. They
started walking, and after ten minutes turned off the bridle path and climbed
a steep hill away from the creek. In a quarter mile, they reached the crest,
and Peter picked his way through the underbrush.
Peter focused on every sound and movement between the trees,
watching for someone following, someone closing in.
He looked down into a small streambed below, marked by a little-used
trail. A fallen tree bridged the stream, and beside it there was a manhole
cover. It looked odd in the middle of the woods, some part of the city’s
drainage.
“Is this it?” Rose asked.
Peter studied the path and then looked back at the notes. “There,” he
said and pointed to the downed tree.
It was still forty minutes until the meeting. They weren’t sure if the
signal they had left on the fire hydrant had worked, or if GIDEON would
show.
Peter wanted to be early in any case, to see if it was an ambush. He
knew about surveillance, but spycraft was alien to him. He could be
walking into a trap.
“What now?”
The higher ground gave him the vantage he wanted: a clear look
through the leafless trees to the meeting site.
“I’ll go down,” he said. “You hang here, in case it’s a setup or
something goes wrong. They have no idea who I am. I don’t know how
they’ll react.”
“If I see something off, I’ll call you.”
“I’ll put it on vibrate. He might be armed. That’s to be expected. Call if
there’s something coming I can’t see. People moving behind me, something
like that.”
He handed her his keys. “And if anything goes wrong, run.”
“Peter. Are you sure about this?”
“I am.”
Farr and the Russians had something to do with that train crash. They
murdered those people. And he would do what he needed to get back at
them.
He embraced her, then started picking his way toward the stream. The
morning sun was filtering into the valley. Dew hung from the tree branches
and soaked the hem of his pants. The stream was running quickly, rushing
through rocks, and as he moved closer, he realized he wouldn’t be able to
hear someone coming.
OceanofPDF.com
66
THE TRAIL WASN’T much more than a line of dirt covered with rotting
leaves. He stopped just beside the manhole cover.
Scanning the high hill to his left, he didn’t see any sign of Rose, but on
a second pass he caught her profile behind a tree. If he hadn’t known she
was there, he never would have found her.
The waiting and empty time were far worse for his nerves than any
action. He was walking unannounced into a game he didn’t understand,
threatening the secrecy of someone he knew only by a codename, who lived
and died by secrets.
Krysanova’s gun was tucked into the back of his belt. He hated carrying
it unholstered, but he had no safer option.
He tried to see everything, hear everything at once. But he was on low
ground, unfamiliar terrain, at the mercy of the other party.
The bright sound of a bell made him reach for the pistol by reflex. But
there was no one there. He took his fingers off the gun’s grip. It rang again,
under his feet, from a drift of leaves piled around the exposed roots of a
pine tree.
Peter took a step toward it and brushed away the leaves. His fingers ran
across something smooth: a phone under plastic. He thought for a moment
that it might be an explosive device, but if it were he would already be
gone. He pulled out a ziplock bag with a cheap-looking mobile phone
inside, took the handset out, and answered the call.
“Hello?”
“Who are you?” It was a woman’s voice, American English with a faint
Slavic accent. Peter turned slowly, scanning the trees. He was almost
certain he was being watched, but there was no sign.
“My name is Peter Sutherland. Emily Krysanova sent me. I came to
meet GIDEON. Is that you?”
“Are you alone?”
“Yes.”
He heard only a disappointed sigh. “Don’t lie to me, Peter. I have her
here.”
He looked to the trees where Rose had been hiding. “Don’t you dare—”
“She’s fine. Lovely thing. That doesn’t mean she isn’t dangerous.
Doesn’t seem particularly bothered by the pistol pointing at her. What did
you do to Emily Krysanova?”
“We went to her for help, the night she was killed. We had nothing to do
with her death. She told us about this meeting. We want to stop whoever
killed her. Are you GIDEON?”
A pause. “Talk, talk, talk,” she said. “What do you think you’re doing?”
“We want the ledger. We have information to trade.”
There was no answer, just rustling over the open phone line and then a
muffled voice speaking a language he couldn’t understand.
After a minute, Peter broke in. “Come down here and talk.”
The woman came back, sounding annoyed. “Listen. This isn’t a fucking
game. And you have no idea what you’re doing. Don’t bluff. Don’t posture.
Do what I say, and you two might survive.”
Peter felt a surge of anger, but she was right.
“First, put the gun on the ground.” She must have watched him reach
for it.
“And then start walking up that trail,” the woman continued. “In about
four hundred meters, you’ll see a path to the right. Take it and walk till you
see the piles of stones.”
“I need to know she’s okay.”
Rose spoke in the background: “I’m good, Peter. It’s okay.”
“Satisfied?” the woman asked. “Now put down the gun before things
get savage, would you?”
Peter laid it on the dirt. He had no other choice. He started up the path.
“I’m walking.”
“I know.”
The call ended.
OceanofPDF.com
67
PETER HIKED FARTHER up the stream valley. After five minutes, he
could see no sign of other trails or the city. He had heard of cases where it
took the police years to find a body back here. Now he understood why.
He could barely make out the path. The gnarled roots of a chestnut oak
hung over it. At points, he had to bushwhack through the tangled
underbrush.
He crossed the stream on a thick downed branch. Thirty feet up on the
far side, the path turned right down another stream cut, this one shallower.
A face of granite boulders lined one side. He could pick out grooves and
tool marks. Twenty feet in, the ground flattened into a surprisingly wide
area, and neat rows of stacked stones ran to his left. Vines twined through
the piles, and green lichen filled the details of the stones. He looked more
closely and saw they were broken-up chunks of fine masonry, columns and
decorative stonework.
It was an old quarry. Footsteps echoed to his right. Peter turned and
turned again once he realized that the sound was reflecting off the stones.
Rose came up the trail. Ten feet behind her, a woman followed, holding a
handgun by her side.
Rose seemed calm. Her eyes met Peter’s and she gave him the faintest
smile, a look of reassurance.
The woman had Rose stop on the trail and walked past her to Peter. She
patted him down without a word and took back the cell phone that had been
buried and the prepaid phone that Peter carried.
“GIDEON?” Peter asked. The woman flicked her head up the path,
behind Peter. He turned.
A man stood between the stacked stones. It was his godfather.
OceanofPDF.com
68
GREG STOOD HALF shadowed by one of the stone piles, wearing a suit
but no tie. He looked like the godfather Peter had always known, handsome
and kind, but any trace of the shy stammerer was gone.
He held a SIG pistol in his left hand. Peter’s mind rebelled, but he
forced himself to think through it. How could this be the same man who
Peter had just gone to for advice, on the same boat where he had slept last
night?
“What is this, Peter?”
Peter tilted his head to one side, stunned. “You are asking me what this
is? Who are you?”
“I think you know by now. Why are you looking for me?”
“I’m looking for a spy who can help me understand why a woman
named Krysanova was murdered in front of me, and why people are trying
to kill me now. I’m looking for help, for someone named GIDEON. Instead
I find you. Someone I trusted like a father—” Peter cut himself off, shaking
his head. He hadn’t trusted his father. “Holding a gun on me.”
“You’re FBI, Peter. I have to be careful. People start dying and then you
come looking for me. You’re sneaking up on a meeting site that was shared
only with two contacts, using signals that only they knew. Both of them
have been murdered. I have to ask what’s going on.”
“Krysanova gave me the instructions on how to signal you. She got
them from a man named Anton Novikoff. We are all on the same side in
this. I’m here because I have no one else to turn to. You think this is some
kind of counterintelligence sting?”
“I can’t afford to make mistakes. I work for myself, Peter. I don’t have
diplomatic immunity. I’m not protected by any embassy. If I misstep, I end
up in prison or dead.”
In prison. Dead. Peter’s eyes were on his godfather but all he could
picture was a slideshow of bodies, all the sources that had been exposed and
murdered because of the leaks in his father’s department. He’d never
understood how his dad got dragged into espionage. And here was Greg,
exposed at last. Now the past began to make sense.
His face felt hot. How strange: the black eye of that gun should have
terrified him, but somehow it only set him off, primed his muscles, made
him want to charge.
His thumbnail drove into the knuckle of his middle finger, by habit. The
woman had walked back the way she had come and was now standing past
Rose, gun ready, covering both her and Peter.
He needed calm, needed something to bring him back to center, needed
to breathe. But he forced his hand to relax. He didn’t want to stop this. He
didn’t want control, not anymore.
Greg placed the gun in an inside-the-waistband holster on his left hip.
Peter approached him, between the two rows of carved granite. Greg’s face
twisted into something pained and sweet, like it hurt him to show it, but he
was glad at last to have the truth out. He raised his hands to the side, a
gesture of surrender, as if to say I’m sorry, and leaned forward.
He might have been expecting an embrace. Peter drove his fist into his
godfather’s stomach with a short, efficient upward blow. A strangled gasp
filled the quarry, and then Greg went silent, the wind knocked out of him,
diaphragm in spasm.
The woman raised the pistol and aimed it squarely at Peter.
OceanofPDF.com
69
PETER IGNORED HER and watched his godfather’s face redden. Greg
put one hand on the stone and waved the other in the air, calling off the
woman.
He couldn’t shoot his godson. Even in GIDEON, Peter could see a
shadow of Greg, a decent man.
Peter crouched face-to-face with Greg. It was reckless, but his thoughts
were coming too fast, his heart pounding too hard to care. Greg was the
traitor, and now everything made sense.
“You were the one who dragged my father into this shit. You killed
him.”
Greg straightened up and took a few shallow breaths, his eyes clamped
shut.
“How did it work?” Peter asked. “Did you turn him? Did you steal those
secrets from him and then let him take the fall?”
“Peter, that’s not it. You don’t understand.”
Peter stood up.
“Don’t make me do something I don’t want to do here,” Greg said.
Could Greg really shoot him?
“We can help each other,” Greg went on. “I know what you’re after. The
red ledger. I can help you find it. I know who’s killing all these sources. I
know who’s hunting you. I can help you stop them.”
Was that how it started with Peter’s father? A favor? Something that
Greg used, like the tip of a pry bar, to turn him. These promises, how many
of them were lies, a way for Greg to exploit Peter’s desperation?
“You worked at the White House,” Greg said. “Did you find out who
the Russians have inside?” Greg studied him. “Yes. That’s why you’re here.
If we work together, I can get you out of this.”
“No,” Peter said.
“They’re going to kill you.”
Peter looked down the path, then back to Greg. “I’m not going to help
you.”
Peter turned and started walking away. Rose approached him, while
thirty feet down the path, the woman brought her gun forward to a low
ready. She was good with it. Her movements all seemed as natural as
breathing.
Rose met him on the path, her face full of fear. She took him by the
wrist. Peter stopped and glared at her.
“What are you doing?”
“There has to be another way.” His chest rose and fell, the anger
pumping through him. They were halfway between the woman and
GIDEON on a trail hemmed in by rock.
“Peter, please,” Rose said, measuring her words. “Think about it. He
can help protect us, get the proof we need.”
“That’s the man who turned my father.”
Rose looked back at Greg, her eyes narrow. “What the hell is
happening, Peter? He was in one of the photos on the boat with you.”
“He was my godfather. He lied to me my whole life. He was the one
who dragged my father into this world.”
“GIDEON?”
“Yes.”
She took his other hand and pleaded in a whisper, “I know this is hard,
but we need his help.”
“Do you know what you’re asking me to do?” It meant following in his
father’s path, becoming everything he’d spent his life running from. “He
destroyed my family.”
She let his hands go and moved closer, then stood on her toes, and
brought her mouth near his ear.
“Do you think they’ll let us go now that we know who he is? Do you
think we can survive without help? Everyone is after us. There is no way
out.”
He looked at the walls of the quarry. It was a good place for an
execution. He glanced to Greg. Peter had no idea what cruelties lay behind
that face he knew so well.
Rose stayed close, but now there was indignation in her voice. “You’re
not the only one who’s lost someone. You want to let those fears run your
life forever? You want to die to prove a point?”
He looked to his left, where the woman stood ready with the pistol. She
seemed calm, but Peter could see the veins in her neck standing out. She
was primed, waiting for an order or provocation. Greg approached from the
other direction and then stopped, twenty feet off. He probably knew that
any words from him would only set Peter off.
“There are worse things,” Peter said to Rose.
“And what about me? And what about what we know? And stopping
the people behind all this?” Peter shut his eyes and took three long breaths.
A bird called. The last leaves rustled in the wind.
“You’re not your dad,” Rose said. “You’re not going to turn into him if
you break some rules. You have a good heart. Trust it.”
He would rather die. But he wasn’t in this alone. He faced his godfather.
“I want that ledger.”
Greg nodded. “I wish there was another way, Peter, but it’s time you
learned the game.”
OceanofPDF.com
70
GREG LOOKED DOWN the path—maybe they were too exposed—and
then gestured with his head back toward the stones.
Peter started walking deeper into the quarry. “Who are you?”
“I’m the man you know,” Greg said. “Real name. Real birthdate. Real
Social Security card.”
“And who do you work for?”
“For myself.”
“People don’t spy for themselves. This all needs to start making sense,
or I’m out.” Greg knew that Peter was inside the White House. He wanted
information. That gave Peter some leverage.
“Do you work for the Kremlin?” Peter asked.
“I did. I started with them without even realizing it. It was before you
were born. I was on a fellowship, working for the West German government
in Bonn. I did a lot for the antinuclear movement, too. We were trying to
build bridges between the two sides. A friend introduced me to some
students from Leningrad. This was the time of perestroika and glasnost,
reformists. We all hoped we could help the USSR become a democracy,
welcome them to the West, help their economy along. I gave them some
articles on engineering. It seemed totally harmless.”
“They weren’t students,” Peter said.
“No. But that’s how they work. Once you do anything, even the smallest
thing for the other side, they hold that over you, they leverage you into
something bigger, and something bigger still. You believe in an ideal at the
beginning, or maybe it’s all rationalization, who can really tell? I told
myself I was helping the USSR keep up, to make sure that the US wouldn’t
upset the Cold War nuclear balance. I was trying to stop a war, stop the
bomb. As I got in deeper, it was about helping Russia become a real
democracy, enter the community of nations. Soon enough you run out of
lies to tell yourself. In the end Russian intelligence owned me, and I didn’t
want to be owned.”
Peter wasn’t sure how much he could trust any of this. “So how did you
get out from under them?”
“I did some work for the French, and they helped take care of the
Russian threat. And ever since then it’s been making a deal here, a deal
there. Robbing Peter to pay Paul, trying to keep all this shit from touching
my real life. You do what you have to do.”
That Peter understood. “And now you’re freelance?”
“Yes. It’s a certain role. I’m neutral, Switzerland.”
“Everyone trusts you?”
“Everyone distrusts me equally, which is as good as it gets.”
He reached his hand out to Rose. “I’m Greg. I’m sorry we couldn’t meet
under better circumstances.”
She shook his hand. “Rose.”
“And this is Ileana.”
The woman with the gun dipped her head in mock courtesy.
“Don’t let her fool you. She’s a sweetheart.”
“Where’s the ledger?” Peter asked.
Greg smiled and appraised Peter, like a man who had finally heard an
interesting offer.
“How much do you know?” he asked.
Peter hesitated. He didn’t want to offer up any details to Greg, not
without getting something back in return.
“Krysanova sent you to me,” Greg said. “She was on my side. She knew
I was the only way out of this.”
Peter and Rose glanced at each other.
“I know you don’t want to give anything away,” Greg said. “How’s
this? A high-level mole in the administration working with Russia, and a
list of meetings and secret plans recorded in a red ledger by a go-between
named Anton Novikoff that would reveal who it is. Henry and Paulette
Campbell got it, and then they were killed.” He dipped his head toward
Rose. “I’m so sorry. Truly.”
“How did you know who I am?” she asked.
“It’s my business.”
“Did you know them?”
“By reputation. Mutual acquaintances. I spent twelve years playing cat
and mouse with them. They were the best.” His lips drew tight. “What
happened to them, it was vile, cowardly work. Even in this world, there are
rules, and their murder violated every one of them.”
“Who did it?” she asked.
“The same man who killed Krysanova.”
Greg watched Rose, watched the anger steel her. “You saw him?” he
asked her.
“No. But I was there that night,” she said.
Peter remembered that blank of a man in the hotel hallway. “We’ve
been attacked twice, at Krysanova’s and the night before, but we never saw
his face.”
“I can’t believe you survived,” Greg said. “His name is Dimitri Sokolov.
They used to call him steklo, glass. People look right through him as if he’s
not there. He’s a breathing nightmare and should have been put down years
ago. The Russians have been assassinating their enemies overseas for a
decade, and now Dimitri is off his leash here. He’s stalking both of you.
Now that you know about the ledger, he won’t stop until you’re dead.”
“Does he have it?” Peter asked.
Greg thought for a moment. “No. He’s still on the hunt. He needs that
ledger. The Campbells had it at one point. Do you know who was running
their investigation on the political side? Who they were reporting to? I
know about Farr and Hawkins. Was there anyone else who might have been
able to find out where it is?”
“Those were the only two,” Peter said. “I know Farr is working with the
Russians but I’m not sure about Hawkins.”
Greg grimaced slightly. “Hawkins is dead. We think Dimitri killed him,
too.”
Peter felt cold all of a sudden. A senior advisor to the president,
murdered. Jesus, no one was safe.
“Which leaves Farr,” Greg said. “I think we found your mole.”
“She killed Hawkins?” Peter looked down for an instant. “Did he find
out about the book? And what, Farr had him killed to avoid being
exposed?”
“As I understand it.”
“Then where is the ledger?” Peter asked.
“If the FBI had it, or the Russians, I would know.”
“How?”
“I have my own sources. The FBI searched a storage unit that belonged
to the Campbells but found nothing.”
“Then Diane Farr took it,” Peter said.
“That’s where this all points.”
Rose turned to Peter. “But why would Dimitri still be looking for the
ledger if she has it?”
Greg answered her. “They’re working together, but his loyalties are to
Russia. Both the Kremlin and Farr want that book for their own reasons. I
believe she took it without telling Dimitri. Do you know how powerful that
ledger is?”
“It’s proof that the Russians rigged the election,” Peter said. “They
crashed that Metro train. They killed twenty-one people.”
A proud smile spread on Greg’s face. “That’s it, Peter. You—”
“Don’t,” Peter said. The last thing he wanted to hear was that he was a
natural spy. All he had going into this were theories and suspicions, but now
based on Greg’s reaction he knew it was the truth.
“Dimitri wants it for Russia,” Greg said. “So they are the only ones who
have proof of treason at the highest levels. They have a compromised
president under their sway.”
“And Farr wants it destroyed?” Rose asked. “To cover up her role?
Protect the president?”
“Possibly,” Greg said. “Or she wants it to protect herself. If it implicates
the president or whoever else was involved, it could give her leverage,
make sure she doesn’t take the fall.”
Peter looked over the carved stones. One part of all this still bothered
him.
“I was on the train that crashed. Why would they pick me to be part of
the investigation?”
“They kept you in the dark on what you were doing?”
“Yes. I just handled an emergency line.”
Peter thought back to that strange interview with Farr in the Situation
Room. She made it sound like she had plucked him for this because no one
was more motivated, but now he understood: it was because everyone was
already suspicious of him.
Peter tapped the side of his fist against a broken piece of granite. “I was
the perfect scapegoat. My father’s son.”
“If she needed someone to take the fall,” Greg said, “she could even
frame you as being involved with the crash somehow.”
“Jesus,” Peter said. He had seen the look on Brian’s face in the parking
garage. Farr was already making him out as a killer.
Ileana spoke up in a language that sounded Russian but wasn’t quite.
Greg listened, and when she had finished, he admonished her: “Fine, but
let’s keep it in English, okay? That’s not helping.”
Ileana returned an impish smile, lifted her phone, and walked to the far
end of the row of stones.
“Was that Ukrainian?” Peter asked.
“Belarusian. We’ve been looking at Farr for a while, patterns of life,
possible hides. We’ve been looking at everyone involved in this.”
“Do you know where she put the ledger?”
“No, but we might be able to find out. Come on.”
Greg had done everything right to get Peter to trust him, but he wasn’t
ready to go along with him just yet. He needed to think, to buy time. He
rested his hand on the stones and looked more closely at a carving.
Greg stepped beside him. “They’re from the renovation of the Capitol in
the fifties. They dumped them here.”
“I thought the columns were in the arboretum.” There was a beautiful
display, thirteen columns set in a field, like a Greek ruin.
“The best are. The broken ones they dumped in a couple of spots in the
park.” He ran his finger over a carved leaf. “These were commissioned
when they rebuilt the Capitol in the 1820s, after the British burned it.
Different times, different allies.”
Peter let the point go. “Krysanova said that there was a clock on this.”
“Tonight,” Greg said. “President Vikhrov will be at the Kennedy Center,
a joint production with the Washington Ballet and the Mariinsky. But before
that Travers will meet Vikhrov at his hotel, the Hay-Adams. He’s in the
Presidential Suite. It won’t be publicized, and they will work out a deal.”
“And Russia uses the ledger as leverage for what? How do you pay
someone back for handing you the presidency?”
Greg ran a knuckle along his cheek and said nothing.
“Travers keeps the US at bay while Russia takes a slice out of Europe?”
Peter asked.
Greg narrowed his eyes at Peter, a mix of suspicion and amusement.
“You don’t disappoint. Who told you that?”
“It’s my business,” Peter said. It was another guess confirmed.
“They could go straight in and seize the Baltics,” Greg said. “For a start.
The Russian troops are ready on the border.”
“They can’t just invade.”
“No. But there are massive ethnic Russian populations in those
countries, Estonia and Latvia. There is a playbook for this kind of thing. A
provocation. Assassinate a pro-Russian politician, a bullet or a bomb, and
Russia sends in undercover troops to protect its people, install a puppet
leader.”
“Like what they did in Ukraine, but bolder,” Peter said. “Will they move
tonight?”
“Impossible to say. But Vikhrov, even after all his Botox and PR
consultants, is still the same man who blew up apartment buildings, killing
his own citizens, and blamed it on terrorists to consolidate power.
Everything is in place. Once he has his deal, the violence could begin any
second. They want back everything the Soviet Union lost, and more.
Greater Russia. Piece by piece. It’s a centuries-old dream. That’s why they
won’t let you live to see tonight, Peter. They won’t let anyone stand in the
way. I can help you. Come on.”
Ileana shouted from the other side of the quarry, again in Belarusian.
Greg yelled back, then shook his head. “Don’t mind her.”
“What did she say?”
“She’s working on getting the last of Farr’s financial records, anything
that can help us find where she might be hiding the book.”
Peter checked Greg’s watch. “There’s no time. We need to go after it
now.”
“Then let’s go,” Greg said and gestured down the path. Peter remained
to the side and held his hand out for his godfather to go first. He wasn’t
going to show the other man his back.
OceanofPDF.com
71
THEY WALKED BACK to the path and Greg turned right, away from the
direction Peter and Rose had come. The trail climbed up, toward
Connecticut Avenue and Chevy Chase.
“My car’s the other way,” Peter said.
“The police are looking for it. We’ll take care of it for you.”
Small favors, Peter thought. That’s how it starts.
“And the gun I left?” he asked.
Ileana patted her pocket. The others waited on the path ahead, and Rose
gave Peter an impatient stare. He went on, following behind the other two
with Rose. A few minutes later they stepped out of the woods onto a side
street and climbed into a black Chevy Tahoe parked around the corner. A
short drive took them into the underground garage of an apartment building
on Wisconsin Avenue.
They parked and took the elevator to the twelfth floor, where Greg led
them to an apartment at the end of the hall. It reminded Peter of a longterm-stay hotel: decent, generic furniture, bland art—landscapes and muted
contemporary pieces—and no shred of any personal traces, like photos or
clothes. It was another safe house, and as Ileana shut and locked the door
behind him, it felt about as safe as the last one.
“We’ve been working on this since Anton Novikoff first contacted me,”
Greg said, opening the combination lock on a filing cabinet.
“This is what we have on Diane Farr.” Greg dropped a stack of files on
the kitchen table beside an open laptop.
Peter leaned over the table and looked through them. They were
background: financial records, patterns of movement.
“We’re looking for people she might have trusted with the ledger or
places she might be keeping it,” Greg said.
“She wouldn’t hide it at her apartment?” Rose asked.
“Not likely given the level of care we’ve seen or the scrutiny she’s
under.”
“How long have you been focused on her?” Peter said.
“We’ve been looking at everyone.”
Peter’s and Rose’s eyes met. Were there files on them in there, too?
“Known associates?” Peter asked.
“Here.” Greg tapped a folder. Peter sat and leafed through it, while Rose
took a chair beside him. He had done these kinds of rundowns dozens of
times, though usually special agents were the ones organizing the hunt and
handing out assignments to Gs like Peter.
“Can I use this?” Peter asked, pointing at the laptop on the table.
“Sure.” Greg punched in the password for a guest account.
“If she did want to use that ledger as insurance against being killed, I
don’t know who she could have trusted it to,” Peter said. “It’s too valuable.”
“There are ways, but I agree,” Greg said. “I think she kept it herself.”
“Any other properties?”
“Not in her name, but we did a search on any corporations . . .” He
looked around the table, then slid a folder across to Peter. “Here it is.”
Greg rested his hands on the table. “You work with Farr,” he said. “Did
you see anything that might help us find it? Hawkins disappeared the night
before last. We think that’s when she must have gotten the ledger.”
That was the night Peter stayed with Rose at the Mayflower. He thought
back to the following morning: the dark circles under Farr’s eyes, the tray
of coffees, her staring at her phone as she walked down the hall. He was
always watching, always silently filing away every detail. He played the
scene back in his mind. He had something. That’s what Greg was hoping
for, to draw information out of him not through coercion but kindness.
His godfather looked down at him, and smiled, waiting, but Ileana came
over a moment later, with a phone in her hand and an urgent look on her
face. She said something quietly in Belarusian. Greg excused himself, and
they stepped into the bedroom, speaking quietly.
Peter started looking through the files. This was the game: he needed his
godfather’s help, but could he take from Greg without giving himself up in
return?
“What are you looking for?” Rose asked Peter in a whisper.
“Hiding sites.”
Peter scanned the lists of bank accounts, investments, and corporate
holdings. There were a few obvious candidates: a safe-deposit box, a
storage unit, payments to a jewelry store, where safeguarding of valuables
was often offered.
He pointed them out to Rose.
Diane Farr was careful, untrusting. He doubted she would give the book
to someone else. He played back the moments he saw her that night and the
next morning. Something had happened. Something shook her. She had
come early enough to the hotel that he doubted she could have made it to a
bank or jeweler, which left the storage unit.
He went on to the real property, something she owned, something she
could access with no one seeing. That made more sense. There was the
condo, but that was too obvious.
Greg had pulled records on everything. Peter liked the looks of a family
trust called Brook Lane. Attached to the incorporation papers were tax
documents and refinancing agreements for a property in the Palisades, an
affluent section of DC that hung down on the steep hills of the Potomac in
the northwest of the city.
“Family trust,” he said to Rose, and turned the sheets toward her. “It’s a
good way to protect the house from lawsuits and bankruptcies. A lot of this
would have been hard to find, and no one should have access to these
financial records.”
Rose pulled the computer toward her and opened a private tab in the
browser, then punched in the address. She found it on Google Maps and
went to the Street View: it was a run-down mansion, half-hidden by trees.
“Is it hers?”
“Not technically,” Peter said. “She’s the executor for someone named
Ellen Farr. Original owner was Graeme Farr. The taxes are a mess. It’s
probably why it’s empty. It’s all tied up.”
“It doesn’t look very secure.”
Peter checked the time stamp on the image and leafed through copies of
permits. “That’s three years old. It’s been totally redone.”
Rose was typing something into the computer. She turned the screen to
Peter.
“Her grandfather owned it. Look.” Peter followed her finger to the page.
Graeme Farr was a director at Christie’s, the auction house’s Washington
representative. He dealt in antique guns and timepieces.
“Wouldn’t the house have a vault or safe?” Rose whispered.
Peter nodded. “Look up Davenport Coffee.”
“What’s that?”
“It’s where Farr brought the coffees from that morning.”
“How do you know?”
“The logo on the cup.”
She showed him a coffee shop on a map. It was three-quarters of a mile
from the Palisades house.
“How did you remember?”
“It’s just practice. This was my job. You hang on to every detail.”
Rose looked down, then turned to him.
“When I saw Farr that morning, I picked up something,” she said. “It
was a really faint odor, maybe varnish or paint. I thought maybe she’d
redone her nails.”
“Or she’d been to a newly renovated house.”
Rose nodded, stiffening as Greg came out from the bedroom.
“All good?” he asked, then looked down at a stack of paper.
“Sure.” Peter opened more tabs on the web browser and began looking
up all the other candidates where Farr might be hiding the ledger. He
wanted to cover his tracks as much as possible in case Greg was still able to
access the browser history.
Greg approached and stood over Peter. He closed his hand on Peter’s
shoulder.
“You found something?”
Peter tapped the papers. “It’s hard to say. This is great information.
There are a lot of places in here she could have put it.”
“You used to track people,” Greg said. “Where do you think it is?”
“It could be any of them.”
Peter glanced to Greg’s holstered pistol. Ileana stood six feet behind
him, her hands held loosely in front of her at her waist, an easy draw for her
gun.
Greg grinned. “You have something, don’t you?”
Peter took a long, measured breath and studied the papers, thinking of
the best way out of this, perhaps by throwing Greg off the trail.
“That’s fine,” Greg said, as his hand slipped from Peter’s shoulder.
“You don’t want to tell me.”
He paced around the table and looked across at Peter and Rose.
“There’s a safe-deposit box—” Peter started to say.
“Peter, listen. I’m not trying to shake you down for information. And
I’m not going to use you to get the book myself. You came to me for help. I
gave it to you. You have something, great. I want to help you, but if you
don’t trust me, I understand. Let me know what I can do, and I will stay out
of your way.”
“Why would you do that?”
“I’m still your godfather, Peter. I want to see you make it out of this
safely. You have just about every law enforcement agency in the capital
hunting you down: DC cops, FBI, Secret Service. But the Russians are the
ones you should worry about. They want your scalp. Let me help you.”
Killing with kindness. That’s what Farr had done, what the president
had done. Peter trusted no one. He had something, a plan or the outlines of
one. It meant putting himself right in front of the people who most wanted
to kill him. It meant using their treachery against them.
“You’ll let us go?” he asked.
“If that’s what you need.”
Peter sat back. “We need cars, two of them, and my gun back, and our
phones.”
“That’s no problem,” Greg said and nodded to Ileana. “And get him a
clean gun, the SIG.”
Ileana handed them their prepaid phones, then stepped over to a locked
cabinet and dialed it open. There were a half dozen plastic storage boxes
stacked neatly on one shelf. She took out a small range bag, unzipped it,
and removed a holstered SIG pistol, a modern polymer version with no
hammer. She handed the gun, along with four magazines, to Greg. He
placed them on the table next to Peter.
“Peter, you can’t kill your way out of this.”
“It’s a precaution.”
Greg went into the shelves and came back with a smartphone. He
checked something on the screen, then passed it over.
“Blackphone,” Greg said. “You ever use one?”
Peter nodded. “We had them in evidence a couple of times.” They were
built from the ground up to be encrypted and untraceable.
“If you need anything, you can use that to reach me securely. My
contact info and public key are already in there.”
Greg opened his wallet and counted out a slim stack of small bills,
maybe six hundred dollars, then handed them over to Peter. He hesitated. It
felt like being bought.
Rose took the money and pocketed it. “Thank you.”
Peter took out the pistol and did a quick function check, trying not to let
the shake in his fingers show.
Greg studied him as he reholstered the weapon. “Don’t go after them on
your own, Peter. I know you’re angry, but you have to be careful.”
Peter slipped the gun into his waistband. “So what do you want in
exchange?”
“Nothing,” Greg said.
“Something for nothing?”
“Yes. You’re family.”
There would be a price, Peter knew it. “Is that how you started Dad
down this road?”
Greg’s mouth tightened. “It’s not like that, Peter. Let me help you.
Where are you going?”
“I appreciate all this, but the rest I do on my own.”
“This is big. You’ll need help. You need me”—Greg tapped his finger
on the Blackphone—“you call. I’m there.”
Peter picked it up and slipped it in his pocket.
“So that’s it?” Greg asked.
“That’s it.”
Greg dipped his head, and Ileana shut and locked the cabinet.
Peter walked back to the elevators, and they all went down together.
The black Tahoe was parked against the far wall, and as they came near, the
lights flashed on a Volkswagen Jetta that Ileana had just unlocked. The keys
dangled from her fingers, and Peter pointed to Rose. Ileana tossed them to
Rose, who walked over to the Jetta and opened the driver’s door.
Peter needed to go over the next steps with Rose, but not here. As he
turned, he nearly bumped into Ileana, who had silently come up behind him.
“I like that girl. This all seems so natural to her.” She smiled. “Like
she’s been doing it for years.”
She put the Tahoe key in Peter’s palm, her fingers slow on his skin, and
walked away.
Greg had been talking to Rose by the Jetta door, leaning in close, but
then he came over to Peter.
“You sure about this?” he asked Peter.
“I am,” Peter said, then thought for a moment. “You always warned me
off working for the FBI. Were you worried I would come for you? Find out
who you were?”
“No. I was worried you’d make it. I never wanted to have to bring you
into this.”
“So much for that,” Peter said. He walked by Greg, tapping him lightly
on the shoulder with his knuckles. “Thanks for this.”
“Any time.”
Peter met Rose by the Jetta.
“What are we doing?” Rose asked.
“Follow me out of here. I’ll pull in someplace where we can talk.”
“Sure.”
She climbed in, and Peter returned to the Tahoe and started it up.
OceanofPDF.com
72
PETER STRIPPED THE battery from the Blackphone as soon as he
pulled out of the garage, in case Greg could follow its location. He drove
north to Tenleytown, looking for tails behind Rose’s Jetta in the rearview,
and led her into the parking lot at Fort Reno Park.
The highest spot in DC, it was also the site of the only Civil War battle
that happened in the District. A fort and sandstone castle stood behind high
fences, their red brick crenellated towers looming oddly over the baseball
diamonds and low-rise apartment buildings.
Rose pulled her car around in a circle next to his, driver’s window to
driver’s window.
Peter couldn’t help but laugh.
“What?”
“That’s a cop move. Pull into the space.”
Peter had to make sure that Greg hadn’t put GPS trackers on the cars.
Greg understood that Peter and Rose knew more than they were letting on.
Maybe he let them go in order to follow them, hoping they would lead him
to the ledger.
Peter had planted a lot of beacons when he worked surveillance. It took
him fifteen minutes to sweep both cars. They were clean. He slid the carpet
back over the spare tire in the Jetta’s trunk.
“You should lay low,” he said.
“Not happening. What’s your plan?”
“I’m going to that house in the Palisades.”
Rose looked around the park. “You think Greg will try to take the ledger
for himself?”
“Yes. That was all too easy. But I should be able to tell if he’s following
us.”
“He seemed genuine.”
“He’s a professional liar.”
“Then why would he have let you go do this on your own?”
Peter watched the trees bend in the wind.
“Because he wants to turn me. To own me. You have to do that slowly,
so slowly the victim doesn’t see what’s happening. He knows he can’t
coerce me—”
“But maybe he can seduce you?”
“Right. He thinks we can’t handle this, that we’ll have to go to him for
help.”
“Can we?”
“We’ll see.”
“What can I do?”
“I want you to park near the White House and look out for Farr. I think
there’s a way to force her to react, to lead us to the ledger. I want you to try
to follow her if she moves. She drives a blue Audi A6. It’ll be the only one
parked inside the White House fence. Try to follow her, see where she’s
going. If she’s coming here, she’ll probably head through Georgetown. See
if you can tell if she’s traveling alone, or if there are other people and cars
with her. I think she’ll be by herself. I don’t know who else she would trust
with it. But that will determine everything.”
“You’re going after her?”
“I am,” Peter said, pulling the key to the Tahoe from his pocket.
He didn’t care what happened to him. He’d felt fear earlier, turning his
stomach, but now he knew what he needed to do, and that fear changed into
something else. It was a focused high, like his best days on the court, and he
found himself savoring it as it drew him into the dark.
“But if the ledger is there,” Rose said. “It must be locked up.”
“Farr will let me in.”
“In what world would she do that?”
Peter scanned the street and looked back to Rose. “If she thinks I
already stole it.”
OceanofPDF.com
73
FORTY-FIVE MINUTES LATER, Peter put the Tahoe in park, grabbed
an ax and a backpack from the passenger seat, and stepped onto the quiet
street.
Dead leaves piled against the curb. The woods sloped down to the
Potomac. This was the Palisades, and Farr’s grandfather’s house was right
down the street.
He had stopped at a little hardware store on the way out of Tenleytown.
It was a mom-and-pop place with prices written on the items in magic
marker. Searching its crammed aisles, he didn’t know if he’d find what he
needed in a store inside the city, but there it was: a thirty-six-inch ax with
an ash handle.
During his time as a G, he’d seen some smart thieves at work, guys who
left no trace. One crew would swap out a car key for a dummy after a test
drive, return to the dealership at night, and drive away as easy as that.
For this, Peter didn’t want easy. He didn’t want surreptitious. He wanted
forced entry, as big and brutal and destructive as possible. Being seen was
the whole point of this gambit.
He held the ax under the blade as he moved toward the back of the
house.
It was Federal style with high peaked roofs, so perfect he could tell it
was uninhabited. There were no drapes on the windows, no hose on the
spigot in the back, no mat at the back door.
Adrenaline primed his body. His heart thundered in his chest as he
strode toward the back door.
Through the window, across the dining area, he could see a wireless
camera. That was good. There was no other security in plain view, and if
there was an alarm, he would know soon enough. Let them come.
He let the ax slip through his fingers and caught it at the end of the
handle as he climbed the back steps. He tightened both hands around the
ash handle and hauled it back, over his head, then whipped the heavy blade
forward. The steel hissed through the air.
He called up the anger he’d spent half a lifetime hiding, let the rage
against Farr and the other killers flow through him, pulling with all the
strength he had.
Peter was done with their rules. Enough with the Boy Scout shit.
The ax entered the door where he wanted it, just above the brass handle,
and the blow shook his body. He hoped to take out the lock face and maybe
the dead bolt cylinder in one go. But the door split along the panels, and he
ripped out the strike plate and twenty-four inches of frame with it.
He entered a breakfast area. The camera was straight ahead. He walked
toward it and then passed into the foyer. A job-site smell hung in the air—
paint and hardwood varnish—and his footsteps echoed back against the
bare walls.
There was another camera in this front room, aimed at the front door.
He tapped the ax against its cord. The blade slid through the wires, and the
green LED at its base died.
The front door had magnetic switches that would trip an alarm if it were
opened. The alarm panel should be here, too, in an easy-to-access spot for
someone coming home, but there was nothing on the wall. He opened the
closet door. The panel was on his left, going off, which was what he
wanted.
The cameras looked like a separate system. They were IP cameras,
hooked up wirelessly to the internet so that someone with a smartphone or
computer connection could log in and view them from anywhere. Farr
could be watching right now. The panel let out a piercing beep, over and
over, but Peter ignored it.
He wasn’t worried about the police. Even if the system was hooked up
to a dispatcher, they would call the homeowner first, and Peter assumed that
Farr would want as few people as possible involved if she kept her secrets
here. Even if the police came, the quickest response would be five minutes,
and that was enough time.
The empty house made for an easy search. He climbed the steps as they
curved in a grand spiral around the foyer and went room to room at the top,
on the third floor. There was a library to his left, maybe an office. The safe
could be in there. At the end of the hall, an open door led to the master
suite: a bedroom with a sitting area on the right.
Another camera sat on a windowsill, pointed toward the side of the
room. That was an odd location. As he moved closer, he saw that it was
aimed at a walk-in closet in the master suite. He’d found it.
Peter stepped inside. The walk-in was ten by fifteen feet, a dressing
room really, with full-length mirrors and built-in shelves and drawers.
There was a vault door to his right, painted beige to match the room, with a
safe dial and lever near its center.
He put his bag down next to it, then walked back toward the camera in
the bedroom. A light swing of the ax shattered it into pieces, and Peter
knew the last thing Farr would see was him standing over her secret.
He had no robot dialer or high-powered drill. He couldn’t crack a safe if
he had all the time in the world. Holding the blade of the ax in his hand, he
cut at the hard plastic of the dial, marring it to leave signs of manipulation.
Then he turned the ax around and drove the handle through the plaster
beside the safe, punching holes beside the hinges and dead center, in line
with the dial and lever.
He stepped back, satisfied, then shouldered his bag, picked up the ax,
and walked out. The alarm wailed and filled the house.
On the ground floor, Peter paused just outside the rear door and glanced
up at the last camera. He had known it was there. He’d left it intact, because
he wanted to be seen, and he wanted to be seen leaving.
He’d done his job, and the last image he left her was of his ax swinging
toward the camera. The housing shattered, and plastic rained down on the
hardwood floor.
He left through the rear door that he had smashed, holding the ax close
by his hip. He strode out to the car and put the ax on the floor in the back.
Every instinct told him to flee. The police could be here soon, and
Farr’s killers, and perhaps Greg and Ileana, too, though he had done
everything he could to evade them and check for tails. They still might have
found a way to stab him in the back and try to take the ledger for
themselves.
Sticking around was insane, which was why he needed to do it, to
remain here in the eye of the storm, the last place anyone would expect to
find him.
He walked to the woods at the edge of the backyard. He had a decent
view of the street both coming and going, and a hard thirty-second run to
his car if he needed to escape.
Most important, hiding here was his best chance to come up unseen
behind anyone who came into the house.
His hand drifted toward the gun. The anger burned in his chest like
strong liquor. He didn’t know what he was capable of anymore, how far he
would have to go in there. He didn’t know if he would make it out, but that
didn’t matter anymore.
He needed to get the evidence before more people died to keep it secret.
He needed to stop Farr and the other traitors from selling out the US.
Five deep breaths brought his pulse down slightly. He ran his hands
down the sides of his legs to dry his palms, then picked up one of the
prepaid phones and called Rose.
“Everything okay?” she asked.
“Yeah, you?”
“I’m fine,” she said. “I’m watching the lot now. Her car is there.”
“Call me if you see her move and try to see if any other cars go with
her.”
“And follow?”
“Stay eight cars back. Do what you can. But no closer, and if you see
anything out of the ordinary, pull off. I only need to know if she’s coming
this way, and if she has protection. And Rose, please, don’t come near this
house.”
Rose had the address, and they had already covered the basics. It was
much safer to follow someone if you had a sense where they might be
going.
“What about your protection?”
He felt the weight of the gun hanging from his belt.
“I’m good.”
“Okay . . . wait. Her car is moving. I’ll call you back.”
“Be careful.”
“I will.”
Peter pocketed his phone and stood in the shadows. A car hummed down
the street. His attention snapped to it. Every rustle and breath of wind set
him on edge.
The call from Rose came ten minutes later.
“She’s coming toward you, on MacArthur.”
“Good. Alone?”
“As far as I can tell.”
“Let me know if she heads somewhere else and don’t get too close to
the house. If she does come straight here, I want you to stop on MacArthur,
at the entrance to the neighborhood. Keep your eyes out for anyone who’s
backing her up. This won’t take long.”
“I want to be there.”
“It’s better this way. It’s better one of us stays back.”
“But . . .”
“Please, Rose.”
She needed to live to tell the story. She needed to live.
“Rose?”
“Okay. Good luck.”
“Thanks.”
He rested his hand on the grip of his gun. Farr was coming.
OceanofPDF.com
74
FARR’S AUDI ROLLED down the street and parked near the front of the
house. A moment later, she crossed through the side gate and followed the
walk into the backyard.
She scanned the windows, and Peter saw that she too carried a pistol,
drawn and held ready. She had a high, confident grip, with her finger
extended along the frame. She knew what she was doing. She looked along
the tree line, looked straight at where he stood half-hidden by a plane tree.
He pressed against the peeling bark.
The wind caught the back door to the house and slammed it shut. It
sounded like a thunderclap in the middle of the quiet afternoon. He’d
destroyed the lock and latch, and the door swung freely.
Farr turned, her back to him now. She aimed the pistol at the door. She
relaxed and lowered the gun as she approached the rear door, then stepped
inside.
Peter drew his gun and double-checked that the safety was off, then
slipped through the trees toward the house. He knew where she was going,
and the high windows would offer a vantage on the deck. He didn’t have
much time to get to the door without being seen.
He cut toward the hedges, moving in a fast walk until he was twelve
feet out from the deck, and then there was no choice but an open sprint to
the back door.
He pressed against the wall beside that rear door. The wind had left it
open six inches. A last deep breath, and then he shouldered it open and
stepped inside, following his pistol as he swept the ground floor.
No sign of her. He crossed to the steps, treading lightly on the balls of
his feet. After all the uneasy anticipation outside, now a strange exhilaration
took hold of him. Whatever would happen would happen. At least he could
get on with it, could give into the manic energy pumping through his veins
and move.
How long does it take to open a safe? How long would it take her to
realize that the theft hadn’t occurred? That it was about to happen now?
He hit the third floor: hallway clear, then he heard a soft rushing sound
from inside the master suite: click-whirr, click-whirr. She was turning the
dial. She was occupied, and both of her hands would be full in a second.
He checked the light: it came from within the room. If he stepped in the
doorway there would be no shadow, no hint. He passed into the open
doorframe and saw her on one knee in the walk-in closet, peering at the safe
dial and closing in on the last number with trembling fingers.
Her gun was holstered. She grabbed the safe lever with her left hand
and drew back the bolts. The heavy door opened with a faint groan from the
hinges. Peter exploited the noise and her distraction to close the distance to
the entry of the walk-in.
As she stepped inside the vault, he stopped just outside the closet. He
could hear her breath let go: a sigh of relief. A red ledger lay on top of a
rack of jewelry shelves. She grabbed it. Peter stepped closer and raised his
pistol. Farr froze.
“Don’t,” Peter said. “Hands to the side.”
She held the ledger in her left hand, while her right hung down by her
thigh, eight inches from her gun.
“Peter? What in Christ’s name are you doing?”
“I’m not fucking around, Diane. Put your hands out.”
She turned slowly to face him.
“You’re confused. You’re in over your head. This is a mistake. Put that
down and we’ll talk.”
“Hands.”
“Someone’s using you, Peter. Who have you been talking to? You know
what happens when people start making their own rules.”
He knew it. He’d lived it. He didn’t care. He was in this with open eyes.
“This isn’t you, Peter. Is it the girl?”
She stepped toward him. She seemed more confident now, as if the
initial shock had faded, as if she knew he would be the obedient subordinate
he had always been. The distance between them closed, between her face
and the gun, and her hand inched toward her holster.
Peter turned slightly, raising his left hand toward her. He put space
between her and his SIG, held it closer in, near his chest.
“Stop.”
Another step. She was bold now, forcing the issue, confident that Peter
wouldn’t, couldn’t kill her. He sidestepped back, and she raised the hand
that was holding the ledger, palm toward him, a calming gesture. She had
seen him retreat, and she would exploit it.
“Don’t make me, Diane.”
His finger slipped from the frame to the trigger, and her hand went to
the grip of her gun.
The crack of a nine-millimeter round split the air.
OceanofPDF.com
75
PETER’S HAND WAS steady on his gun. It hadn’t moved. He hadn’t
fired. Farr stepped back, shocked, and held her arms out to the side.
Rose stood in the bedroom behind him, another SIG drawn and aimed
straight at Farr’s head. A wisp of smoke escaped the barrel. The muscles in
Rose’s forearms stood out. She was gripping the gun tightly, and there was
the faintest shake in her fingers.
A wash of plaster dust lay on the ground between them. Rose had shot
up, as a warning, but her next shot was lined up true.
She was liable to fire again just from the tension, but Peter’s first
priority was Farr. The surprise of the gunshot had thrown her, and Peter
rushed toward her, knocking her hand away from her holster, and then
snatching the gun out of it, drawing it smoothly from the Kydex sheath.
He pivoted back on the hardwood, out of the line of Rose’s fire. He
flicked the safety on Farr’s gun and tucked it into the back of his belt.
He seized the ledger from Farr’s hand, then took a step back, standing in
the entry to the closet.
“Rose. I’ve got her. You can take your finger off the trigger now. Put it
on the side of the gun.”
He glanced back. The muscles in her forearms tensed. She could shoot
without even meaning to.
“She killed them,” Rose said, her voice an odd, emotionless monotone.
“I have the ledger, Rose. We won. We just need to get out of here.”
“She killed them.”
“Rose. There’s a right way to do this. Don’t give them what they want.”
She stared at Farr.
“Tell me the truth,” Rose said. “Why did you do it?”
“You’re both deranged. Just put that down before you get us all killed.”
Rose’s lips tightened into a flat line.
“Rose,” Peter said.
Her hands closed on the grip like she was wringing out a rag.
Engines gunned in the street.
Farr smiled.
Peter knew in an instant: they were inside a noose. “We’ve got to get the
fuck out of here.”
Rose’s eyes darted from the front side of the gun to Peter: an uncertain
look.
“You’re traitors now,” Farr said. “The only way out of this is through
me. You need to make a deal.” She pointed at the ledger.
Rose lowered the gun and took three steps toward Farr, who looked
ready to devour her.
“We’ll take our chances,” Rose said. Her hand shot out with startling
speed to shove Farr. She stumbled into the vault and threw her arm back for
support. Rose hauled the door closed and threw the lever.
Farr pounded on the door and screamed as Rose put her hand on the
safe dial, then glanced to Peter for confirmation. He nodded, and she spun
it.
Someone would come looking for Farr, and she could call out the
combination to them, but this would buy time. Peter dipped his head toward
the door and took the lead, gun out, as he ran down the stairs.
An SUV slammed to a stop in front of the house, rocking on its springs,
and Peter and Rose tore toward the back door. Peter threw it open and they
ran across the patio to the hedges in the side yard: decent cover until they
hit the trees. Over the hill to the right, sirens screamed in the distance:
police or FBI. Rose and Peter cut through the woods back to Peter’s car.
There was no one he could see on that street, but the sirens multiplied
and moved closer. He threw the driver’s door open and swung himself into
the seat, while Rose took the passenger seat. Peter handed her the ledger.
His instinct was to stomp the gas, but he brought the car up to thirty-five
miles an hour, then kept it steady as Rose watched the road behind them. He
didn’t want to draw attention.
Rose looked down into the back seat. “What’s up with the ax?”
“Long story,” he said. He saw police flashers ahead and turned, looking
for a clear way out of the neighborhood. “Where did you get the gun?”
“Greg gave it to me when we picked up the cars, just in case.”
Peter pulled up to a stop sign and saw a black BMW M5 fly past them,
fifty miles per hour on the side street.
The passenger had a trim beard and black-bead eyes. That was no cop.
Peter looked down to see that Rose had the ledger on her lap and was
snapping photos with one of the cell phones.
“I’m sending these to myself, so we have a record no matter what
happens.”
Peter turned around a corner, and then heard the whoop of sirens ahead,
near the entrance to the parkway he had been planning on taking. He
palmed the wheel around and went down a leafy road.
“Can you find another way out—” The prepaid phone started ringing in
his pocket. He raised it to his ear as he turned again.
“Peter? Are you okay?” It was Greg.
“I’m a little busy right now.”
“I know.”
“Did you send these people?”
“No. I’m nowhere near you, but we can listen in on police radio traffic,
and some FBI counterintel, and get a sense of where they are. They’re
swarming the Palisades. Farr’s grandfather’s house—that was it, wasn’t it?
How did you know?”
Peter didn’t answer.
“Doesn’t matter,” Greg said. “You’ve got to get out of there.”
Peter looked to Rose, who nodded her head: Listen to him. Peter
wondered if this was all some game to get him to hand over the evidence.
How could Rose, who had no experience, be so cool in the midst of this
madness? He had worried that she would fire that gun by accident, but she
handled it like a pro.
“Peter?” Greg asked.
“Who else is after us besides the police?”
“It’s former Russian military intel, the GRU, in the lead. They’re blood
drinkers. But they’ve called up every illegal they have in the city. It’s an
army coming for you, Peter. You need to come in.”
“The police have me blocked in this neighborhood. I can’t get out.”
“Where are you?”
The roar of the M5’s engine came from a block over.
“Potomac and Galena.”
“Head northwest on Potomac.”
“I saw cops that way.”
He heard cross talk, Ileana’s voice.
“They’re gone,” Greg said. “They were moving. But they’ll have that
buttoned up in a second. They’re sending out everyone. They’ll have
roadblocks up. You need to go.”
Peter whipped the car around.
“You alone?” Greg asked.
“I have Rose.”
“The ledger?”
“It’s safe. How did you get this number?”
“When Ileana took your phone in Rock Creek, she checked it. I needed
to be able to reach you. The Blackphone was dead.”
Peter still didn’t trust Greg, but he needed to get out of here. He could
figure the rest out later.
“So how do we do this?” he asked.
“You might be a little young to remember Pac-Man. Give Rose the
phone. You need to drive.”
“And your blood drinkers?”
“We can’t get their comms or location. You have to keep a lookout.”
Peter handed the phone to Rose. She concentrated as she talked to Greg.
“We’re going north. Okay. Okay.” She used her free hand to point the way,
toward the road where he had heard the sirens.
He could be driving straight into the arms of the police. There was no
way they would believe his story. They would hand him straight over to
Farr. He took the risk. At the intersection ahead, there was no one.
Rose pointed right—opposite from the direction he had expected—and
he turned onto a wooded two-lane road. She flagged him left into another
neighborhood, and he cut down the street.
Sirens came bleating a minute later. He came out of that development
beside a small shopping center on a four-lane road, and Rose updated Greg
on their location.
“South?” Peter asked.
She shook her head no. “They have the car description.”
“Where are we supposed to go?”
“He can bring us in.”
Peter clenched his jaw as she pointed him down another side street.
“We have no choice,” she said. “They’re going to have helicopters up in
a few minutes. We need his help.”
Peter already owed Greg, and now he would owe him everything. He
leaned forward and looked up at the cloud-streaked sky, searching for
helicopters.
“Show me where.”
OceanofPDF.com
76
GREG STOOD ON the sidewalk outside DC General Hospital and pulled
on his cigarette. This was the meeting site that he had given Peter and Rose.
Ileana was keeping a lookout on the west side.
The hospital had been abandoned years ago and was now surrounded by
a chain-link fence. A host of community health service and other municipal
buildings adjacent to it still seemed to be in operation, though their parking
lots were empty on this weekend afternoon.
He didn’t have great lines of sight to see if anyone was approaching, but
they were the best he could manage.
Peter and Rose were late. He lifted his phone and tried Ileana. It rang
six times, seven, while he muttered, “Come on, come on.”
She didn’t answer. “Where are you?” he said under his breath, then took
another drag. He didn’t smoke, but it was good cover for waiting around
without looking suspicious. He wanted to walk over to check on her but had
to be here when Peter and Rose arrived.
He let out a clouded breath and brought his shoulders back, trying to
relax. The cigarette hand lowered naturally to his side. He let the smoke fall
and seized the grip of his gun.
“Don’t turn.” The voice came from behind him before he could pull his
pistol from the holster. “Hands out.”
Greg didn’t react.
“I’m not the police. I’m happy to kill you.”
He held his hands out to the side and looked over his shoulder as
Dimitri Sokolov circled him, the gun held in close.
“How are you, Dimitri?”
“Busy as ever. You?”
“It hasn’t been too bad recently. How’s Carolina?” Dimitri’s wife.
“She passed.”
“I’m sorry to hear that.”
“Thank you. It was for the best. She had been sick for a long time.” He
paused for a moment. “I know that Peter Sutherland is on his way. I need
you to signal to him that it’s safe to meet.”
“And what will you do?”
“I don’t want to kill him or the girl. I need the book back.”
“You don’t want to kill them.”
“I’ll do everything I can. It will happen one way or the other. If you put
your face on it, make him think it’s safe, make it as smooth as possible, I’ll
do what I can to avoid it.”
Greg pressed his lips together and looked at the sidewalk.
“I know you’re close to him, Greg. I know you want that book as badly
as I do. If you help me here, we will read you in on it. The people I work
for will forget everything that’s happened before between you and them.
You know how valuable that is. Ileana will be fine. You will be fine.”
“It’s family.”
“He’s not your family. I know this is hard. I appreciate that. But I know
you’ve done this kind of thing before. And worse. It’s the job.”
Greg didn’t answer.
“I respect that,” Dimitri said and lifted the gun. “Close your eyes.”
Greg shut them and took a long breath in through his nose. Dimitri
aimed. Greg’s eyes snapped open, staring down the bore of the pistol.
“Wait.”
“Is that a yes?”
Greg nodded.
“I need to hear it,” Dimitri said.
“Yes. I’ll do it.”
OceanofPDF.com
77
RFK STADIUM TOWERED to their left as Peter drove down TwentySecond Street. A desolate-looking building filled the horizon ahead. “That’s
DC General Hospital,” Peter said. To the right the National Guard Armory,
a vaulted gray fortress, hemmed them in.
“Straight ahead,” she said.
They both spoke in low tones as they scanned the streets. This was a
grim corner of DC, home to the jail and the old Congressional Cemetery.
“Where is Greg?” Peter asked.
“He said he’d be on the far side. He wanted us to park out of sight and
walk.”
Peter pulled over.
Rose had the ledger open on her lap. “It’s all here. Every meeting, every
location, every date. Dresden, Prague. This must be Farr; she used the name
BEECH.”
Peter looked at Novikoff’s notes, a mix of English and Russian. “It was
her and people from the GRU, the SVR, the First Building—that means the
president himself,” Peter said. “It’s Vikhrov’s headquarters in the Kremlin,
the old Senate building.”
She pointed to a date, circled in black.
“That’s the night of the Metro crash,” he said, studying the Cyrillic
writing. He saw a rough schematic map of the Metro, with the Operations
Control Center at the center of a web of lines and computer hostnames. He
checked the date of the entry: a month before the derailment.
“Jesus,” he said. “Those are operational plans.”
Rose turned more pages. Peter saw the name Gibson, Travers’s
opponent in the general election, and a word he knew even in Russian:
kompromat. Dirt. The kind that tanked Gibson’s campaign in the final
stretches of the race.
Dates and times. Names and places. If FBI counterintelligence got their
hands on that book, they’d be able to run the whole plot down, discover
everyone involved, find out who crashed the Metro, who threw the election.
Rose flipped through the ledger. The last two pages in the book were
scrawled with notes: they looked like dates and names to follow up on, and
quick entries to be put in order later, and then, at the bottom: “Who is
OSPREY?”
Rose looked at Peter. “But that’s Novikoff’s handwriting.”
Peter studied the page. “He’s not OSPREY.”
“Then OSPREY might be alive. The original source.”
Peter’s eyed widened, and he looked to Rose. They had the ledger.
Maybe the Campbells’ source was still out there. He was almost afraid to
hope this would all work out, that he would jinx it somehow.
He watched a cop car drive through the intersection, the officer inside
looking their way behind his wraparound shades.
“We don’t have a lot of time,” Peter said.
“Greg is around the corner.”
“We’re just going to hand it over to him?”
“He’ll help us get the truth out.”
“You trust him?” he asked.
“He saved us.”
“He wanted that book. Now he’ll get it.”
“We need to go, Peter.”
He watched her for a long moment, taken again by her calm through all
this. Maybe that looked like suspicion.
“What?”
He wouldn’t lie to her. “This seems so natural to you.”
“What are you saying, Peter?”
“You’ve never done anything like this before?”
“I’ve been through some awful shit. I learned to put my head down and
get through it. You think I’m hiding something?”
She shook her head and looked out the window.
“Are you?” Peter asked.
“What? A spy? Working with Greg somehow? You asshole.” She
grimaced, as if holding back the anger. That was fine. He could take it. If
they were about to go against the sitting US president with the help of a
foreign agent, he wanted all the cards on the table.
“No,” she said. “I’m terrified and doing my best to keep it together and
find a way out. This is how I work. I get cold. I get through it. And you . . .”
She looked out the window again, censoring herself.
“Go ahead.”
“You were on that emergency line the whole time. Other people called,
didn’t they?”
She stared at him.
“They asked for your help,” she said, “and you served them up to their
killers.”
He remembered the one other night when the phone on his desk had
rung, the controlled panic on the line as the man recited the code. Could
Peter have known? Could he have seen something if he weren’t blindly
following the rules?
“Your hands aren’t clean,” she said.
“You’re right.”
It was true, and he deserved that. She wiped her fingers under her eye,
pushing away tears, then dried her hand on her pants.
He’d had to ask, to know, because once that book went out, there was
no turning back.
“I’ll go,” Peter said. “You stay here with the book.” If it was a trap, he
wanted to be the one caught.
“Fine.”
“Listen, Rose . . .”
“Let’s just get through this, okay?”
“Give me ten minutes. I’ll call if it’s going to take longer than that. And
if you don’t hear from me, something went wrong. Just go. Send what’s in
that ledger to everyone: the papers, the inspectors general, the intel
committees.”
“I’ve got it.”
“You okay?”
She checked her phone. “It’s time.”
Rose gave him a strained half smile. It was enough for now. The
pressure and lack of sleep were getting to both of them. He didn’t fault her
for anger, for a sense of betrayal after seeing the people she loved murdered
by those they trusted, by the people Peter worked for. There would be time
to make it right, he hoped, but not now.
He stepped out of the car and started walking toward the hospital. His
godfather was waiting.
OceanofPDF.com
78
PETER CAME AROUND the corner. Parked cars lined both sides of the
street. This was the spot, but Greg was nowhere to be seen. The gun still
hung on Peter’s hip. He pulled his shirt back, over the holster, for an easier
draw.
After walking another fifty feet, he saw movement and wheeled to his
right. It was Greg. He came out from behind one of the buildings near the
hospital and moved at an angle toward the cars. There was no sign of
Ileana.
Even with his doubts, Peter felt a surge of relief when he saw the
familiar face. Greg would know how to get away, how to get this
information out.
That meant a lifetime of running, of hiding. Peter pushed the thought
away. He had enough to worry about in the present.
Peter smiled as his eyes met Greg’s. As he came closer, Greg paused.
His eyes narrowed and his mouth tightened, an expression of pain deeper
than any Peter had ever seen on his godfather’s face. Greg shut his eyes and
then shook his head left to right twice, barely moving an inch, just enough
to be seen.
Not safe.
Peter froze and drew, but even as he brought the gun forward with both
hands, two shots rang out and echoed down the street. Peter couldn’t tell
where they had come from. Greg’s shoulder twisted back as if shoved by an
unseen hand and a cloud of red glistened in the air behind him. He took a
staggering step back and then fell, grunting in pain on the ground.
Greg had shaken his head to warn Peter off, sacrificed his life for his
godson’s. Peter knew what he should do: Run.
Peter scanned the street. He couldn’t leave Greg here to die. He sprinted
to the edge of the parked cars and ran along them in a low crouch.
Sirens were moving in. Greg groaned, but the sounds were faint, with
no breath behind them. Peter stopped twenty feet from where Greg lay on
the sidewalk and peered around the car that gave him cover. He expected a
bullet any second, but there was no sign of any shooter.
Greg’s half-lidded eyes met his, and Peter mouthed, “How many?
Where?”
Greg shook his head. He didn’t know. He was still alive, his hand
pressed to his sternum. It was a chest wound, maybe the lungs or heart.
Blood pooled on the sidewalk beneath him, a red-black mirror.
Crouching, Peter leaned out from behind the car. No fire came, and he
ventured farther. Nothing. He ran toward Greg.
Once in the open, he swept the surroundings with his gun. It was clear.
He dropped to one knee beside Greg and tore open his shirt. Two holes. One
bubbling. Peter covered the wound with his palm, trying for a seal.
“It was Dimitri. Where’s Rose?” Greg gasped.
“Here,” Peter said and brought Greg’s hand up to the hole in his chest,
helping him cover it. Peter needed to find something to use as an airtight
bandage.
“I shouldn’t have doubted you,” Peter said. This man had offered up his
life to protect Peter.
Greg shook his head, and his shoulders rose, just barely, a gesture of
resignation.
When Peter learned that Greg was a spy, he assumed that his godfather
was the one who had lured his father into that life. But what if it was the
other way around?
“It was true.” Peter’s voice was a shocked whisper. “Everything they
said about my dad. He was guilty. He turned you.”
“Let it go, Peter,” he mouthed. “It doesn’t matter. I’m done. Get Rose.
Get out.”
His lips kept moving but no words came, and all Peter could see were
the whites of his eyes.
Peter glanced over his shoulder. He could see figures at the end of the
street and hear the sirens coming behind them. He ran his fingers into the
hollow of Greg’s throat but felt no pulse.
The police would be here any second. He could hear the sirens. They
could do more for Greg than Peter possibly could, and the shooter might be
going for Rose now.
He ran toward the low fence on the other side of the courtyard, vaulted
over it, and cut across the grounds, straight to where Rose was parked.
He called her as he raced around a trailer in the shadow of the main
hospital building. The phone rang, and he continued toward the street where
Rose was waiting. A prerecorded voice came on the line: “The subscriber
you are trying to reach is not available. Please leave a message.”
His car was there. He jumped a concrete barrier at the edge of the lot.
Even from across the street he could see something wasn’t right. The
passenger door was open. He raised the gun and closed in, but she was
gone.
All that remained was a streak of blood on the curb.
OceanofPDF.com
79
PETER SEARCHED THE street in both directions. Another promise
broken. Another call unanswered. And now they had the ledger. It was all
for nothing. Or worse. He had done the job as well as any traitor: handed
them all the evidence that they would need to bend the president to their
will.
Two days without sleep. His godfather’s blood on his hands. He was
running on adrenaline and fumes, and that bright stain on the curb nearly
broke him.
He stepped into the car.
Watch. Listen. Follow. That had been his job for years. He found
people, and he would find Rose. Where would you go if you were them?
Away from the city, from the authorities.
Based on the sirens, the police were closing in from the west. Driving
his car put a target on him, but he didn’t care. He had to get her. She was
alive. He had to believe that.
A block north, he saw a white Ford Explorer turning right. Low on the
rear bumper, there was a smear of red. He had taught her about tails: how to
hide, how to be found. Rose was calling.
He took off after the Explorer. The weekend traffic was relatively light,
so he stayed far back. The SUV turned and took the bridge over the
Anacostia River, heading for the high-crime neighborhoods in the far
southeast of the District. He followed past the swamps and brown braids of
the river’s tributaries. If they kept going, the traffic would get lighter soon
and make it harder for him to hold the tail without being seen.
The SUV cut right and exited the highway at the next intersection. The
traffic light turned yellow. Peter gunned it up the shoulder, but the right-
turning cars blocked him. The SUV disappeared behind a shopping center.
He leaned on his horn, but by the time he made it through the light, the
Explorer was gone. He followed the road and after a half mile came to a
four-way stop.
He cursed under his breath and pounded the steering wheel with his
palm. He’d lost them. To his right were single-family houses. Good privacy.
He started to turn that way and then saw the street sign a block ahead.
Burnham Road. He had seen that name in the ledger. It was one of the
few meet-up sites that wasn’t in the usual diplomatic sphere of luxury hotels
and restaurants and affluent enclaves. He drove on.
Ahead, backing onto the highway and the train tracks, there was a
warehouse cut from the fifties. It had powder-blue paint and glass tiles and
the broken remnants of a neon sign advertising some long-gone family
department store.
Peter didn’t slow as he drove past and, looking to his left, caught the
Explorer parked near the loading docks in the rear.
Why would Dimitri reuse an address from the ledger? A quick
changeup to get away from the police, to rally more of his killers by his
side? Peter didn’t know much about abductions, but based on a few stories
from the veterans at the field office, he knew things only got worse with
every move: more isolated, more secure, harder to escape.
The doors were locked, surely, and Peter had to assume that Dimitri had
picked up on the tail and was waiting for him.
Perhaps the blood was a trail, breadcrumbs to lure him here, so that
Dimitri could take out everyone who knew the details of the ledger.
He would be waiting, ready to spring on Peter, surprise him. So Peter
had to do him one better. He leaned back against the headrest and jerked his
seat belt, setting the ratchet tight against his chest, then pushed the
accelerator to the floor.
The engine roared and revved up with so much torque that Peter had to
fight the wheel back to center as he shot up the driveway, toward the chain
stretched across the entrance. It tore at the plastic fenders of his car, then let
go with a squeal and a snap. The speedometer climbed—twenty-five, thirty
—as Peter pointed the car at the windows of the old showroom, hands low
on the wheel to let the airbag do its thing. Suddenly all he could see were
glass tiles. He shut his eyes as the crash came.
His head snapped forward, straining his neck. The jolt ran up his
forearms like an electric shock, but it wasn’t as bad as he expected. The
airbag didn’t blow, and in the chaos of shattering glass and screaming
rubber, he slammed on the brakes and braced for a sudden deceleration.
He stopped thirty feet inside the empty showroom. Insulation and
dropped-ceiling tiles hung down in front of the blown window. From inside
the dark and dust-swirled space, the hole the car had punched in the wall—
with gray clouds streaking a brilliant blue sky beyond it—didn’t look real.
The car was still rocking on its springs as Peter climbed out, drew his
gun, and circled to the trunk in a low crouch.
His hands were shaking. He had the manic energy that comes after a fall
or crash where you might say you’re okay but be walking on a broken leg.
He scanned the darker recesses of the showroom: offices and shelves and
hallways leading farther back into the warehouse.
He caught a reflection in one of the office windows: a man coming
around a partition, squinting against the kicked-up dust. Peter readied his
gun and aimed where the man would come out. Behind the man, Peter
could make out dark hair and a woman in an odd posture: shoulders back
like she was stretching. It was Rose, her arms bound behind her back.
The man stopped, and Peter centered the front sight of his pistol on the
partition. He would go no closer. Peter eased the trigger back, and the gun
bucked in his hands. A second shot. A third. Fourth. The blast reverberated
through the empty space.
“Rose! Run!” Peter yelled.
He heard fast footsteps and then saw Rose take off, deeper into the
warehouse, with the man following after.
OceanofPDF.com
80
PETER CHASED THEM, glass crunching and sliding under his shoes.
The whiplash in his neck mellowed into an even throb. Offices passed on
his left, and he entered a long central hallway. At the far end, there was a
padlocked rolling door, probably a loading dock. He checked the doors as
he went: each gave onto a high-ceilinged storeroom dominated by twelvefoot-high steel shelves. Some were cut up into smaller spaces, and some led
deeper into the building. It was a warren. From somewhere in there he
heard rattling: handcuff links.
Stay alive. Get the truth out.
But he didn’t care about the truth anymore. He didn’t particularly care
about staying alive. In the end, he was back at the start. Rose was in there
somewhere, hunted and terrified. This time he wasn’t on the other end of
the phone. He was here with her, with a gun.
He pursued the noise and darted through the open door, remembering
what the agents had taught him at the practice ranges in Boston.
Doors are good places to get killed. Get through and get your corner.
Running to the right, he could just barely make out the sound of more
footsteps. He took cover behind a wide set of metal shelves, then leaned
out, to the right, offering the smallest target possible, not much more than
the gun and a quarter of his face. He saw nothing and then repeated the
same move to the left.
The back of the room lit up brilliant white, and then lightning struck his
hand and his face. Pain arced up his arm.
He went back to cover and checked his hand: a wound ran from the base
of his index finger toward the wrist. Blood pooled and he wiped it away:
cuts, not a bullet hole. With the blood, they looked worse than they were.
Peter’s hand burned, but he could still move it.
The polymer frame of the gun was smashed and cracked like a cheap
lighter in a parking lot. It had caught the bullet. His cuts must have been
from frag. The barrel tilted left, off-center. He tried racking the slide, to
check the action, but it moved only a quarter of an inch and jammed.
Useless.
“No!” It was Rose’s voice. There was pain in it, panic. Peter ducked low
and inched toward the door. He could hear her struggling, closer to the
opposite corner now. Peter reached up and hit the lights.
The room went black.
“Ungh!” Rose was still fighting back. Her voice was a beacon. Peter
stood. In the sudden dark, they would all be blind. He needed something to
draw Dimitri’s attention as Peter moved on him. The shelves were massive
and would take a moment to fall if he could tip one over. He could use the
distraction to get closer to Dimitri and jump him.
He bent at his knees and hips, set his shoulder against the shelf, and
pushed hard, straining. It lifted, slowly, and teetered on the edge of balance.
He drove his legs into the ground and tipped the shelf the last inch. It began
to fall.
Tracing the wall with his hand as his eyes adjusted, Peter ran toward the
corner ahead. That put him at one end of a long row, with Rose and Dimitri
at the other end. He could hear Rose’s voice and went toward it. He hit
something hard with his hip. A low metal thud. Shit. He’d given himself
away.
It didn’t matter. Something crashed to his right: the shelf he had tipped
over, slamming down. The boom of steel on cement was like a cannon blast
in all that dark, that silence.
Peter ran blind down the row. A muzzle flash lit the scene before him:
Dimitri aimed his pistol where the shelf had fallen. With his nondominant
hand, he held Rose’s wrists high up behind her back, wrenching her
shoulders. He was looking the wrong way, the gun off Rose now. He’d
given Peter an opening.
Whatever had been on the shelf was still crashing and rolling over the
floor. The noise covered the sound of Peter’s footsteps as he sprinted
through the shadows. At the last instant, the gun swung his way, but he was
already in too close, charging Dimitri. His shoulder connected with the
man’s ribs, and he grunted as they both slammed into the concrete wall.
“Run, Rose! The door!”
The way he had come: it was a slant of light at the other end of the
storeroom, a clear exit.
“Peter!”
His fingers touched the cement floor, then a man’s eye and lips, then an
arm. He seized the wrist. Another gunshot exploded, the barrel inches from
his face. He could hear nothing but a piercing, high-pitched drone.
“He’s got the gun,” Peter yelled. “Get out! I’ve got him.”
He didn’t have Dimitri, but he would tell her whatever he must to get
her out of here. A shadow moved across the light from the door: Rose
getting to safety. Peter found Dimitri’s other hand and choked up on both
wrists. He felt breath in his ear and then caught the bitter chemical smell of
burnt propellant: the barrel near his mouth. He dropped to his side as the
heat and light of another shot flared in his face.
It missed, but the blast and pressure made the room spin. He thought he
might vomit, but he held on and brought both his hands to the grip of the
gun, the cuts singing with pain as he wrested it away from Dimitri’s fingers.
Peter turned the pistol around and got a decent grip with his right hand even
as Dimitri fought for the gun. He knew from the sounds of ragged breath
where the other man’s head was.
His finger reached inside the trigger guard as he tore Dimitri’s other
hand away. He had the shot.
Cold pain flared along his thigh, and his knee dropped to the floor. A
slash from a knife. The gun pulled from his grip, and the blade came again,
across his shoulder. He was on one knee now and felt Dimitri pulling away
from him, in control of the gun.
OceanofPDF.com
81
PETER SWUNG THE side of his hand through empty air, then back, and
caught Dimitri in the jaw. The gun fired over his head, and in the red flare it
was clear who was in control.
Dimitri held the pistol in front of him, slightly dazed from the blow, but
still managing the weapon expertly. Peter took a stumbling step forward and
then right, toward a faint line of light ahead along the back wall. The light
spilled through a steel sliding door. Peter shouldered it open and slipped
through. Dimitri was right behind him, moving with unsteady steps, but
Peter didn’t run. The gun was already coming his way as he drove the door
shut. He heard a muted crunch and a scream.
Dimitri was partway through, his left hand crushed in the door, his right
still holding the pistol. Peter took off. In the rear of the space, there was a
pair of swinging doors that led to what he took for an employee break room.
The light was good there, and he ran inside. The rush of air from the door
set a Styrofoam cup rolling down the hall.
A steel door with a push bar led outside. Escape. He listened and caught
no sound of Dimitri. Had he lost Peter? Gone back for Rose? Had Peter
pushed him toward the easier target? He pressed open the door. Sunlight
warmed his face. He squinted, could smell the grass.
Run. The instinct was so strong.
He stopped on the threshold and turned back the way he’d come. “I’m
right here!” he yelled. His voice reflected back from all those empty halls.
He kept the fear out of it as best he could, and its strength surprised him.
“Come on!”
A low laugh answered him.
“That’s sweet, Peter. Are you trying to buy time? Trade yourself for
her?” The voice was closer than he anticipated. “It doesn’t matter which of
you dies first.”
Peter stepped outside and limped across the cracked pavement of the
side lot. High fences ran to his left and right. He couldn’t get back to the car
by going around the building. Twenty feet ahead, there was a dumpster and
a panel truck stripped almost to the frame, sitting on its bare wheels. They
would offer some protection.
He made it to the dumpster before the first shot came. The air hissed
and dirt kicked up ahead of him. Dimitri was outside. At least Peter could
lure him away. At the edge of the lot, a hill choked with weeds and gnarled
trees ran down to the railroad tracks. The steep grade would give him cover,
and the fence on one side was rusted and half-collapsed, offering an escape.
He might be able to work his way around back to his car if he made it
down there, to find Rose and get out. He stumbled through the underbrush.
The thorns tore at his face and pulled at the cuts on his hand and the slash
on his leg.
Brown-orange water pooled at the bottom of the hill, a creek choked
with leaves and plastic bags and dead branches. He splashed through the
mud sucking at his shoes and then stumbled along the gravel beside the
train tracks.
The fence ended twenty feet ahead of him. If he stuck by the tracks, he
could make it around. Blood pumped out of the cut in his leg with every
step. The pain was fire pushing toward his heart, but he could manage it.
The muscle was beginning to spasm, his whole quad tightening up, quitting.
He could barely drag his foot through the stones.
An overpass ahead brought the highway over the tracks and this little
stream valley. It was dark underneath, like a tunnel, and the sounds of
traffic echoed back.
Peter stepped toward it, but something was off. He stopped, and the
gravel crunched behind him. He turned to see Dimitri, twenty feet away and
closing, the gun out in his right hand. His left was a mangle of bone and
skin and blood. Anger twisted the man’s face into something animal.
What does a hand mean to a killer? What had he lost? Why hadn’t he
already shot Peter?
“Right there is fine,” Dimitri said.
Peter held his hands to the side. At least he’d bought Rose time. She
could tell the story.
OceanofPDF.com
82
HE WAITED FOR the shot, but nothing happened, and Dimitri could
probably read his face, the anticipation giving way to surprise.
“If I wanted you dead, you’d be dead,” he said. Now Peter understood:
Dimitri didn’t have the ledger.
He needed Peter.
The Russian stepped closer. It was eerie to see him up close at last, with
his bland fatherly face.
“You’re good at this work, Peter. All the lies and sordid shit we do.” He
glanced at his hand. “I guess that’s why you were so careful for so long.
We’ll find her. We’ll find it. Maybe it made you feel better for a little,
playing the hero,” Dimitri went on. “But you can see how pointless it is,
can’t you?”
A train horn sounded, echoing along the tracks through the underpass.
“This is how the world works. Coercion and violence. Dealmaking.
Wading through this shit.” He jerked his head toward the stream. “You’ve
already chosen. Thrown your lot in with Greg. The whole world is a gray
area, Peter. You can save her. Just help me out and stop lying to yourself
with this do-gooder garbage.”
“I don’t know where it is.”
“Every asset the rezident has is coming after you, Peter. I’m merciful
compared to some of these men. I can get it out of you through pain, or we
can work together. But believe me that we will get it out of you one way or
another.”
The stones began to move, the faintest tremble. The train was coming.
Peter stepped onto the gravel beside the tracks.
Dimitri shook his head. “That’s not the way out, Peter. I knew your
father. It’s true. He was one of ours. I guess you know that by now. I guess
you see it in yourself. You’ve probably always known it. He tried to lie to
himself about who he was. It tore him apart. That’s the coward’s way.”
The ground quaked. Peter could feel the hum in the rails and hear the
long cry of the train’s horn.
Dimitri was right. Peter didn’t know if getting the word out would
change anything. This whole thing was so fucked from the beginning. But
Peter wouldn’t trade for his own life, and he wouldn’t give up any
information through whatever tortures Dimitri had in mind.
Peter took a dragging step through the gravel. If he was going to die, it
wouldn’t be under that train. He was going for that gun, fifteen feet off,
aimed straight at his heart. It was just a different kind of suicide, but at least
he would go down fighting.
The train entered the underpass: the chug of the engine a sudden roar.
How far was it, he guessed, two hundred feet? A hundred?
Pop.
The train was so loud he barely heard the noise: something shattering to
his left. The sound drew Dimitri’s attention away.
Peter didn’t hesitate. He did what he had done so many times, practiced
endlessly on the hard courts, drove forward to close the space between him
and his goal. Pain surged up his side, flooded out from his shoulder and up
his neck, but Peter was flying. He was already inside Dimitri’s reach before
the other man broke his attention away from the new threat.
Peter knocked the gun away with his good hand, lowered slightly, and
drove his shoulder into Dimitri’s chest. The Russian stumbled back. The
train horn blared. The steel wheels locked and screamed along the track. It
felt like they were at the center of an exploding bomb. Peter caught himself,
right leg forward, and gave a last hard shove with his right hand to Dimitri’s
shoulder.
The other man’s arms wheeled back as he fought for balance. He came
down hard on his side, across the tracks, and his head whipped against a
rail.
Peter stepped back, and Dimitri raised himself on one hand in the
instant before the train hit. Peter leaned away from the booming streak of
silver, fighting the wind that slipped alongside the train as it pulled him in,
his eyes closed to slits against the flying debris.
His hair blew forward, and he stepped down the gravel to the mud. The
high-pitched whine of the brakes pierced the air. He looked back and saw a
foot in a sock sticking out over the track. As the train passed and slowed,
Peter stepped closer. Dimitri’s jacket lay torn nearly in half beside a railroad
tie, and Peter saw keys glinting in the dirt beside it. One of Dimitri’s shoes
had been knocked into the brown grass, fifty feet away. The body was
destroyed.
Peter picked up the keys and started up the hill, limping as fast as he
could as blood trailed down his knee and calf. To his left, he saw the
remnants of a shattered beer bottle. That must have been what distracted
Dimitri.
And he knew who threw it. Above him, framed by two maples, stood
Rose, her hands still cuffed.
OceanofPDF.com
83
“WHERE IS HE?” Rose called as she came down the hill.
“Dead. On the tracks.”
She crossed through the trees toward him. “Jesus, Peter.”
His pants and shirt were both soaked with blood, but seeing her, the
feeling of just being alive still, flooded him with such relief that he forgot
about the pain.
“I’m okay . . . I’ll be okay.”
With Dimitri’s keys, he undid the cuffs, then squeezed her to him and
kissed her temple.
She led him around the building, and he spotted Dimitri’s Explorer.
“Are you okay? The blood on the curb, the car.”
“It’s nothing,” she said as they reached the vehicle. “I fell and skinned
my palm when they came for me. I’ll drive.”
He handed her the keys and climbed in the passenger side of the
Explorer.
“Your leg,” she said.
He pressed his hand down on the wound and winced against the burn.
“It’s fine for now.”
Helicopter blades chugged in the distance. They had to go. Rose started
the SUV and hit the gas. The tires spun out on the broken-up asphalt as they
shot toward the exit of the warehouse lot.
“You need a doctor.”
“I’m all right.” Peter’s eyes were on the mirror as he helped her
navigate the back roads. The sounds of police sirens grew louder and
louder, and then began to drop away.
“The ledger?”
“I hid it,” she said.
“Near the armory?”
“Yes. I saw them coming. I didn’t have much time. It’s next to one of
the parking lots. I can show you.”
He opened his eyes wide, fighting against a wave of lightheadedness.
They passed an industrial park and, on the other side, a lot full of sand and
gravel.
“I think we’re clear,” he said. “There.”
He pointed to an overpass for the highway, and Rose pulled under it. It
would hide them from any aerial surveillance.
“Peter. Stay with me.”
He pressed his hand down on his thigh and felt the warmth as the blood
dripped over his fingers. He knew it wasn’t an artery, and already it seemed
to be slowing, but that didn’t make it any less scary. He thought he might be
sick.
“What do you need?” she asked.
“A compress.”
He looked in the console, while Rose checked the back seats, and
brought up a roll of duct tape.
“That’ll work. I’ve got some clotting going with the pants, so just wrap
around it tight.” He turned on his side slightly, and she started in with the
tape. Peter ground his teeth together as he heard it come scritching off the
roll. The cut was on fire.
“Is that good?”
“Yeah,” he said. She put on a tight six-inch-wide band.
“Your arm.”
She went around the slash three times, moving with the calm efficiency
of a medic.
He put his hand on his leg. The pressure was excruciating, but he was
glad for it. Rose sat back, shut her eyes, and laid her hand on his.
“We’re not done,” she said.
He remembered Greg’s words about the blood drinkers, Dimitri’s
warning that the rezident had given the command for its whole shadow
army in DC to hunt him down. They played by mob rules, and would
torture and kill without a thought.
“No,” he said. “If the police don’t get us, Farr and the Russians will.”
He prayed that if they were caught, it be by the police, but that was no
guarantee against disappearing, against being handed over to the
conspirators.
“I could rest here forever,” she said.
“I know. I know.” He put his other hand on hers. “This will be over
soon.”
“One way or another.”
“We’re going to make it.”
She smiled. “You’re awfully confident for a guy held together with duct
tape.”
OceanofPDF.com
84
THEY SWITCHED SEATS, Peter limping around the car, and he drove
them back across the river. He could handle the automatic vehicle with one
arm and one leg, and Rose, who knew exactly where the book was, would
grab it.
The DC police had blocked off some of the roads around the hospital.
As he approached the armory, Peter wondered if Dimitri’s men were
hovering nearby, too.
Rose leaned forward in the passenger seat as Peter rolled slowly down
the street.
“There it is,” she said, pointing to a low cinder-block wall. Behind it
was a blue construction dumpster.
Peter pulled to a stop, and Rose stepped out between two parked cars.
She walked calmly, without the telltale swivel neck of someone afraid they
were being watched. She leaned over the wall and reached into the gap
between it and the dumpster. She kept walking—the whole movement was
smooth—with whatever she’d retrieved hidden on the far side of her body.
Peter drove down the street about twenty feet, keeping pace with her,
and she stepped out between the cars and climbed in. He pulled away as her
door slammed shut. The ledger lay on her lap, a bit of dirt on the top of the
spine but otherwise perfect.
“Thank God. Nice work.”
“What now?” she asked.
Peter had been so fixated on getting the book, he hadn’t gotten much
further. They had only hours until the deadline. He checked the rearview,
then hit the gas and cut down a narrow one-way between two buildings. He
turned left at the end and then made a right turn after a rolling stop at the
next intersection.
“What is it?” she asked.
“Black BMW.”
“Was Dimitri working with other people?”
“Yes. We’ve got to get someplace safe.” If you saw one, that meant
there were fifty hiding.
He took them south, avoiding the highways. “Can you turn on the
radio?”
“You want music?” she asked, surprised.
“Traffic and news.”
She pulled up an AM traffic and talk station. The reporter finished up a
piece on the federal budget and then started talking about road closures
around the Kennedy Center because of security around the ballet.
“What are you thinking?”
“They might be watching the arteries out of town. And if we want to get
that ledger in the right hands, we need to stay close to home—”
A new segment started on the radio: “There are two dead in Southeast
Washington, in two separate incidents, and the police are on the lookout for
two suspects—a white man and white woman in their late twenties. They
were last seen driving a black Chevy Tahoe. Police caution not to approach
and that anyone with information should call 911.”
“God. How long until they find us?” Rose asked.
They had left the Tahoe at the warehouse, but he didn’t know how much
time that would buy them. The police would be out in force. “I don’t
know.”
He drove past the harbor, into East Potomac Park, a long island
squeezed between the Tidal Basin and Washington Channel on one side,
and the Potomac on the other.
He pulled over, and could see the Bureau of Engraving and Printing
buildings across the channel and the Washington Monument rising behind
them. A police helicopter banked high overhead.
“Do you want to run?” she asked.
He thought for a moment. “You can’t run from the government. You
can’t run from the SVR, the GRU, everyone from Russian intel. But we
have a weapon. We have leverage.” He looked at the ledger.
“Get the truth out?”
“I don’t know if we have time. I don’t know if anyone will believe us.
They’ll be looking for that move, going to the press. They might kill us
first.”
He leaned over the wheel, looking for the helicopter. “But we can use
the threat of making it public. There must be some way to play one side
against the other.”
Rose shook her head. “You don’t want to play their game, Peter.”
He didn’t. Blackmail, hiding the truth: it made him sick. He’d run from
it his whole life, run from his father’s choice. But if it was the only way to
keep Rose alive . . . he didn’t know. Get the truth out—it sounded so
simple, so right, but was it naive to think it would be that easy?
“We put this out there, we have targets on our backs,” he said. “We
might not live long enough to even see it go public.”
Dimitri had been right. Peter had already crossed the line. He was part
of this world now.
“You know the kind of power we have, with this?” he said. “The
administration, the Russians. We’re in control. You were right, Rose. That
black-and-white stuff is a luxury. You do what you have to do to survive.”
Rose touched her knuckle to her lips and looked out the window. Now
she didn’t seem so sure. “Are you saying that because you believe it, or
because you’re worried about me?”
Peter didn’t answer. A helicopter came back over the Potomac.
President Vikhrov and Travers were meeting tonight. Peter remembered
Greg’s words. They would make a deal, then the violence could start any
second: a provocation, a prelude to war, a bullet or a bomb. Peter and Rose
were running out of time.
“We have to move,” he said.
Peter pulled out. They talked as he drove. The police would have a
dragnet out for them, and the Russians would figure out he had Dimitri’s
car if they hadn’t already. Every vehicle was a threat, every corner capture.
There was no time, no escape, and no good options. But in the end, they
knew what they needed to do.
Peter stopped the SUV and lifted the Blackphone. He looked across the
Tidal Basin. A cold wind rippled the water. He watched the flag waving
above the White House as he dialed a number he knew all too well.
202-456-2461. It was the extension he’d stood by for all those long
nights. The emergency line. But now he was on the other end.
“Go ahead.”
“Pen. Clock. Door. Fire. Give me Diane Farr.”
“Thank you.”
There was the sound of an exchange opening, of the call transferring,
and then a single ring.
“Yes?” It was Farr.
“You know who this is?” Peter asked.
“I do.”
“I want to deal.”
OceanofPDF.com
85
FARR DIDN’T RESPOND. Peter thought the call had disconnected. Her
voice came back, different now, its tone shifting like it was going through a
synthesizer.
“Don’t try to record this. It won’t work.”
“I don’t need anything else on you, BEECH.” He let it linger. It was her
codename from the ledger and all the threat he needed.
“Welcome to the game. You get a little bit of power, and everyone’s out
to get you. That’s DC. So what do you want?”
“These killers off my back.”
“That’s going to be hard, Peter. We think they’re former GRU. Russian
military intel. Not as well-known as the KGB or the SVR, but they’re
actually a lot worse, none of this Queensberry rules, gentleman spy shit.
They’ve called out the savages. They’re not happy about the ledger.”
“I gathered.”
“I’m not happy either. You locked me in my own fucking safe.”
“It sounds like that worked out okay.”
“These people after you are less forgiving. I might be able to stall them,
but unless you come in, and I can guarantee that you and this information
are under control, everyone you know and love is in danger. I’m talking
about that girl. I’m talking about your ex in New York. I’m talking about
men who learned savagery firsthand in the Soviet-Afghan War and would
think nothing of killing a young woman.”
“What the hell happened to you, Diane?”
She didn’t respond.
“You can buy me time?” he asked.
“Just enough to come in. The two sides meet tonight, seven P.M. We
need to finish this deal and put all this shit behind us. If you don’t come in
by then, it’s hunting season . . . Peter?”
“I heard you.” That was in three hours.
“So we’ll deal,” she said. “The ledger for your safety, for Rose’s safety,
and none of this ever happened.”
“I’ll deal. Just keep these murderers away from me, or it all goes
public.”
“Where can I find you?”
“I’ll find you.”
“Seven P.M.”
He hung up.
OceanofPDF.com
86
THE HANDS ON the clock of the Old Post Office building hung straight
down: six thirty P.M. Rose had pulled over on Constitution Avenue across
from the Ellipse, the park just south of the White House grounds.
In the passenger seat, Peter wore a cheap pair of Dockers and a polo that
Rose had bought at Rite Aid.
He checked the Blackphone one last time, scanning the news, looking
for tremors of what was to come. What did Russia have planned that would
be worth so much risk, so much death here in the capital?
He was used to the intelligence resources of the Sit Room, with its allseeing eyes around the world, but now he settled for scanning the BBC and
regional press. The warnings were there: unrest in the former Russian
enclaves of northern Europe, the Baltic states; shoving matches in
parliaments; violence in the streets; ethnic Russians claiming abuse at the
hands of the Western-aligned politicians and national police; a shaky video
of a woman with blood running down her cheek, her hand clamped to her
face.
The Russians would trigger this kind of unrest themselves, bomb a
building if they had to, anything for a pretext to invade. The Russian border
with Europe was boiling over, ready for a final provocation.
Peter scanned the photos and videos for the special operations soldiers
—the Spetsnaz in olive plainclothes with no insignia—who would silently
infiltrate territories in advance of the main attack. In Ukraine they called
them the little green men. He saw none, but that didn’t mean they weren’t
there.
The stories he was reading seemed so small, minor scuffles in some
forgotten corner of the map, but that was how world wars began: an
assassination in Sarajevo, a radio station stormed on the German-Polish
border.
He’d watched the troops building for months, the columns of trucks and
armored personnel carriers pressing against the frontier like high water
against a dam.
The United States was the only thing that could keep them in check, and
now the president was in their pocket.
Peter put the phone down. He’d cleaned up his arm as well as he could
without a shower. Three butterfly bandages and a line of Krazy Glue held
the cut on his thigh closed. A bit of red had seeped through, but not enough
to attract attention. It didn’t matter. It was a short walk.
“Are you sure about this?” Rose asked.
He put his hand on the door handle. “Yes.”
Rose leaned over and put her palm to his cheek. She studied his face for
a moment, like she was trying to fix it in her memory, and then kissed him.
She shut her eyes tight, trying to keep from crying, then pulled back an inch
and rested her forehead against his.
“I . . .”
“Me too,” he said.
She sat back, and Peter opened the door.
“I’ll see you in a few.”
She nodded and forced a smile.
Peter walked to the northern end of the Ellipse and faced the White House.
The flag trailed gently to the east. Even now, after all this, the sight still
moved him.
He knew the truth. His father had betrayed his country. He’d broken the
same oath that Peter had sworn, to protect and defend the Constitution from
all enemies, foreign and domestic.
If he didn’t act, more people would die. The men and women behind the
murders would go unpunished, would profit from the killings. This was a
sin like his father’s, only a thousand times worse: an election stolen, a
democracy subverted, a puppet on the throne. They had bought the White
House and paid in blood. This was his chance, at last, to atone.
He had a plan. It meant handing himself over to the killers. He knew he
might not make it out of this. He was okay with that. Some things were
worth it.
He thought of that last phone call from his dad. Peter could forgive his
father for giving up his life. There were times when that made sense. But
Peter could never forgive him for dying for nothing.
He lifted his phone and called the emergency line. The same answer, the
same voice. It wasn’t Julian; it was just another wide-eyed yes-man glad to
have a seat at the White House. Like he had been.
“Pen. Clock. Door. Fire.”
After a moment Farr came on with that whispering synthetic voice.
“You’re out of time. Where are you?”
He looked straight at one surveillance camera and then another.
“Outside. Top of the Ellipse.”
“You’re here?”
“Let’s talk.”
OceanofPDF.com
87
HOW STRANGE IT was to stand like a tourist in the heart of monumental
Washington, waiting, minute by minute, at least ten, until he almost grew
accustomed to his jackhammer heartbeat.
A black SUV rolled in from the right, shielding him from the view of
the White House. The windows were all mirrors in the night, and Akana,
the Secret Service agent, stepped out, utterly calm as he surveyed the
Ellipse.
He stood beside the vehicle like a chauffeur as Peter climbed in. Akana
took the seat beside him and shut the door. Once they started moving,
Akana reached over and searched Peter. He must have noticed the wounds,
the way Peter gritted his teeth against the pain. Satisfied, it seemed, that
Peter bore no weapons or recording devices, he sat back.
“The girl? The ledger?”
“I had to make assurances, in case I disappear.”
Akana didn’t respond, as if he had expected as much. The clock in the
SUV’s dash had been blacked out. They drove in silence, and through the
tinted windows, Peter tried to follow their route.
After ten minutes, they pulled up to a gatehouse, and waited as a
twelve-foot-high black barrier rolled back.
Peter was expecting something industrial or prisonlike, gray concrete
and steel, but inside the fence, there were brick homes with porches. They
looked like old officers’ quarters. The SUV pulled behind another brick
building, a one-story compound that reminded him of a sixties high school.
Akana guided Peter out with one hand on his good arm. The agent and
another man walked him inside the building and down a long corridor lit by
fluorescent bulbs. His shoes squeaked against the linoleum floor. The
adrenaline amplified every sound, every sense.
After a right turn and then a left, Akana opened the door to a conference
room with no windows and ushered Peter in. The other guard stayed in the
hall.
At the front of the room were a pull-down screen and an overhead
projector on a cart. Akana pointed to a chair at the conference table, and
Peter sat.
Rectangles of unfaded paint on the pale green walls testified to old
photos or portraits that had been stripped. The whole place looked like it
had been untouched since the Vietnam War. It was all Peter could do to
remember that he had the power at this moment, because he already felt like
he had been disappeared, forgotten to time.
He had the ledger, and Farr needed it. That was the only thing keeping
him alive.
The clock on the wall read 6:56.
Peter could see it all unfolding: the doors to the penthouse at the HayAdams opening on silent hinges, and Travers walking inside as Secret
Service and their Russian counterparts sealed off the corridor.
The hushed opulence of the Presidential Suite. The windows looking
down on the White House. The tight diplomatic smiles as Vikhrov extended
his hand. The two men alone, the truth forever hidden from history. How
much would Travers give away? What was the presidency worth? How
many more would die when he betrayed his country with a handshake?
Peter saw the troops again, waiting at the border, guns in hand, ready to
take the parliaments, the town halls, the police stations, to haul those people
back under the Kremlin’s grip in a first strike at Europe.
The second hand ticked by. He had done what he needed, made his last
desperate move, and now he could only wait for the storm to come.
OceanofPDF.com
88
ROSE KEPT THE SUV going just above the speed limit. She studied the
cars behind her in the rearview, their windshields like mirrors in the night.
Every few seconds she would reach down with her left hand and touch the
ledger in the door pocket, feel the cheap tape along its spine.
The Blackphone rested in the cupholder. God she hoped this worked.
She was safe, and the book, their only leverage, was safe. And Peter . . . he
was in their hands.
She felt so alone. She glanced back at a black sedan, three cars behind
her. She saw killers everywhere.
Headlights flashed across the road ahead, and a gray car shot out from
the side street, and stopped, angled across both lanes.
Rose stood on the brake. Her seat belt locked and dug into her chest as
her car pitched forward. She turned the wheel hard to the left but nothing
happened. She was at the mercy of the skid.
Trees filled Rose’s window, spinning past like vertigo, and the SUV
shuddered off the side of the road, tearing through the grass of the shoulder.
Rose’s head slammed back as it came to a stop, but she was already
moving, throwing open the door, ledger in hand as she jumped onto the
weedy shoulder and took off.
A gun rose to her left, aimed straight at her, absorbed all of her attention
like it was floating in space.
A blur flew at her from the right, as a man crashed into her, clamped his
arms around her. He lifted her off her feet, her head thrown back as the
book slipped from her fingers and fell on the street, its pages turning in the
wind.
OceanofPDF.com
89
FOUR MINUTES UNTIL the deadline. It felt like surrender to ask the
first question, to seem needy, so Peter simply waited, counting out full
breaths and glad, for a moment at least, to rest his pained body. He knew it
wouldn’t last.
Two minutes later, Akana checked his phone and walked outside. He
came back in a moment with Farr behind him. She walked in and grabbed a
seat as if this were just a normal Tuesday morning staff meeting.
“So where is it, Peter? I assume you have copies, probably digital. It’s a
whole mess we have to clean up, and if we can’t get our arms around this
thing, everyone dies, so don’t think this is chess or some kind of game. Just
tell me where it is.”
Peter smiled. After all that anticipation and dread, the actual moment
came as a relief. He was building himself up, faking it in a way, but that
confidence was addictive, its own drug. The smile unsettled her, broke
through her boss act. And that was good. She wasn’t a superior; she wasn’t
even on his level. She was a traitor.
“I need assurances,” Peter said, “some guarantee that we’ll be protected
from your people and from whoever Dimitri was working for and with.”
She let out a desperate, edgy laugh. “You want me to put it in the
Congressional Record? Maybe have a Rose Garden press conference with
these Kremlin knife artists who are out to kill you? How the fuck is that
going to work?”
“I don’t know.” He checked the clock. “But you should figure it out. Or
else everything goes out.”
“Really, you want to play games? Your dad didn’t care what happened
to the people he loved. I have a feeling you do.”
Peter tensed, fighting back the reaction. He leaned forward and spoke in
an icy whisper.
“If we don’t work this out,” he said, “you’re in prison for treason.
Congress recognizes that train attack for what it was, an act of war. Or the
Kremlin murders us all before we get to that. So what do you have for me,
Diane? You said you wanted to deal, let’s deal. Time’s up.”
She sat back in her chair, shaking her head with a hint of a smile. He’d
seen it before, a certain Washington type; they bulldozed everyone in front
of them. The fearful got in line, and those who shoved back got respect.
Farr tapped a finger on the table and appraised him.
“I always knew you were a treacherous motherfucker underneath it all.
Maybe that’s why I thought we could work together.”
Peter shrugged.
“Your father was good. They never would have caught him, except he
had a conscience. He was a bad traitor, because he couldn’t convince
himself he was a hero.”
“You can’t rattle me, Diane.”
“It’s a compliment. Welcome aboard, Peter. I’m glad you’re done lying
to yourself.”
He had a feeling that her sudden amity and good faith was all smoke, a
way to put him at ease, to work him by building a rapport as the best
interrogators do. As soon as she had what she wanted, she would do her
best to kill him.
That was fine, because both she and Peter were playing with hidden
cards.
“I need to make some calls,” she said. “And how can I verify that you
don’t have extra copies hidden away, that you won’t turn around and stab
me in the back?”
“You control every door and every piece of paper to the most powerful
office on earth. I can verify, and if there’s anything you don’t like, at any
point, kill me. It won’t be hard.”
She slid her chair back and stood. “It’s harder than I thought.”
Farr turned and walked out. Akana stared at Peter, who felt sweat drip
along his spine.
It was seven o’clock.
Peter waited. A few minutes later, Akana took out his phone and looked
at the screen. He had a good poker face, but Peter could tell that something
was off. The phone buzzed in his hand, and he stabbed at the screen with
his finger, silencing it for an instant, but it quickly began to ring again.
He went to the door, and as soon as he opened it, the echo of a pair of
woman’s shoes, clacking fast along the linoleum, broke the silence like a
metronome. It grew louder and louder.
“What the fuck is this? Is he still in there?” Farr shouted from the hall.
“Of course. What’s happening?”
But Akana didn’t get an answer. Farr shoved the door open. The knob
slammed into the cinder-block wall.
She held her phone up like a murder weapon.
“What is this?”
Peter leaned back and placed his hands on the table. She stalked around
it and stood over him, while Akana shut the door and unholstered his
sidearm, a black SIG.
Peter didn’t bite. Time was on his side. Time was his weapon. This
whole charade had been a bid to buy more of it.
“I just had the Washington Post call,” Farr said as she slammed her hand
on the table, “asking about a red ledger.”
OceanofPDF.com
90
PETER WAS SURPRISED that it was only one reporter, but maybe Farr
was withholding. He and Rose had used the Blackphone to send images of
the most important passages from the ledger, along with a summary of
everything they had learned and suggestions on how to corroborate it, to the
Wall Street Journal, CNN, Fox News, the New York Times, and the
Washington Post, along with half a dozen inspectors general in the
intelligence community, and the Department of Justice, as well as senior
staff on the losing Gibson campaign.
“Sounds bad,” Peter said and eased back in his chair.
She backhanded him with the closed fist that held the phone, then bent
forward and put her face two inches from his. Her lips drew back,
trembling, baring her clenched teeth.
The blow brought little more than a dull ache. So many other things hurt
on his body that it barely registered. Peter rose from his chair slowly, then
pushed it back and towered over her.
“Another suicide,” she said, unfazed, and looked at him with disgust.
“You think a tip from a nobody can change anything, a digital photo of a
few random handwritten notes in some book by a dead Russian that no
one’s ever heard of? You think that’s insurance? You’re both going to die.”
The anger softened into pity. “Peter, Peter, Peter. It didn’t have to be this
way.”
Did he think sending out the evidence would save his life or Rose’s? He
hoped so but wasn’t sure. The idea of two people with no clout taking down
the White House seemed far-fetched. Woodward and Bernstein were good
reporters, but people forget that it took the Supreme Court, the DOJ, FBI,
and Congress to bring down Nixon. That was bureaucratic civil war. This
was David and Goliath.
So much had been hidden already, so many unimaginable crimes
committed. He didn’t know what to believe anymore. He liked to think that
in the end the truth would out, and justice would be served. But that
sounded hopelessly naive in the face of all he knew.
He and Rose had talked it through as they drove and prepared to send
those emails from the Blackphone.
He had been ready to make a deal, to play the game. Maybe Farr and
Dimitri were right. All those things he had believed in for his whole life—
about following the truth, about doing the right thing—just kept everyone
else in line while the powerful did whatever they wanted.
He remembered Rose’s words to him on the boat that morning. She had
shown him that sometimes you have to forget about black and white and do
whatever it takes to survive. That was the real world.
After he’d told her that in the car, she looked at him squarely. “No,” she
said. “I think you’re right. I think you’ve always been right. I’m done with
all that.”
It might cost them their lives, but they had no idea if they would survive
either way.
“Do it,” she’d said, and he hit send.
The evidence had gone out. But they needed time for it to filter through
all the gatekeepers, time to paint that proof across as many desks as they
could, so that Farr couldn’t erase it. So Peter had played along with what
Farr wanted to believe, that he, like everyone else in DC, thought the truth
was up for negotiation. Everyone looked out for himself. Everyone wanted
a deal.
What a fucking town, where the last thing anyone suspects, where the
trickiest thing you can do, is tell the straight story.
“It doesn’t matter,” Farr said. “No one will believe you.”
They could cover it up, Peter knew. Who would believe it? But he was
tired of playing their game. If he was going out, he’d go out on his terms.
His dad had died for nothing. He didn’t mind dying for something. Even if
they had him, maybe he had won enough time for Rose to get away.
“We could have done so much,” Farr said. She shut her eyes, pained,
like she was already remembering him, like he was already dead.
She looked at Akana and nodded her head.
Farr left, and the door slammed shut behind her. Akana stood with his
back to the door and drew his pistol.
OceanofPDF.com
91
AKANA TRAINED THE gun on Peter’s head, both hands tight around the
grip. Peter looked straight at the barrel and clenched his jaw, steeling
himself.
The growl of engines filtered into the room, cars or trucks pulling up
outside. Akana kept the gun on Peter with one hand and checked his phone
with the other.
He stood for a moment, his eyes fixed on Peter’s along the gun sights. A
step to the side, and he opened the door and exited. Peter heard the key
rattle in the knob and the dead bolt slide, locking him in.
There was silence for a minute and then the sounds of more cars. Peter
went to the door. There was no twist knob for the dead bolt on this side,
only the slot for a key. He scanned the room for something he could pry the
door with or use as a weapon.
He went to the projector. Maybe a shard of glass would work. He was
looking for something to muffle the noise of shattering the lens when the
sound of footsteps filtered through the door.
It was loud and getting louder. He could barely use his right arm, but he
fumbled the lens out and threw it on the ground. It shattered, and pieces slid
along the floor. As he crouched to grab one, the door flew open. The latch
plate for the lock tore out of the doorframe, and two men in dark suits
crossed through the door and went to corners of the room, covering Peter
with their pistols.
He raised his hands.
The man on the right aimed his gun at Peter’s head, while the other
closed in and patted Peter down.
He pivoted back and nodded to the first gunman. Peter recognized both
of them: Secret Service. God, how many people were in on this? Or were
they simply following orders?
“We’re good,” one called into the hallway.
A figure stepped through the doorway, flanked by two more agents.
Peter’s breath caught.
It was the president. He carried a red ledger in his left hand.
OceanofPDF.com
92
EVEN BEFORE TRAVERS said a word, Peter understood: they had
gotten to Rose. Travers had the ledger, the original evidence. What had they
done to her?
It felt like all the blood drained out of Peter’s body, like he was
puddling there on the floor. He put his hand to the wall to keep from falling.
Travers walked farther into the room and kicked one of the shards of
glass, sending the jagged fang spinning to his left. He looked down at it,
then picked it up and examined it.
Peter took a step toward him, and the second agent raised his pistol.
Peter ignored them. His whole body drew tight, the muscles straining, like a
set trap. He was losing control.
“What did you do to her?”
“Peter, I’m here to help.” Travers put the glass down on the table.
“Is she alive?”
“Peter, please. Stay calm. For your sake.”
“Where is she?” he growled.
“She’s fine. She’s here.”
He spoke briefly with one of the agents, who clearly didn’t seem to
think what the president was saying was a good idea but relented.
“Peter, you’ve been through a lot, and you have a right to be angry and
not trust a word I say, but I am on your side in this.”
“You want me to play along? Is that the deal? Some kind of trade?”
Nothing about it made sense. Why would the president be anywhere
near this thing? The right move was to insulate himself.
“No,” Travers said and stepped aside.
Rose came through the door.
“Peter!” She was untouched, walking on her own, her hands free.
“Are you okay?” he asked.
“I’m fine.” She took a step toward him and then stopped. She was alive,
but now the president had both of them and the ledger.
“What do you want?” Peter asked Travers.
“The same thing you do, Peter. I want to get to the truth behind all of
this.” He moved closer to the table. “I need the room,” he said to the agents.
They hesitated, and one agent came up to the president and spoke into
his ear.
“Fine,” Travers said.
The lead man sent the other agents out and shut the door, then posted up
at the head of the table. Travers put his hands on the back of a chair. His
face was grave as he looked from Rose to Peter.
“I don’t know if you’ll believe any of this, but it’s the truth,” he said. “I
knew your aunt and uncle, Rose. They were good people. I was there at the
start of their investigation, but when I talked with them I used another
name.”
Peter took a step closer and put his hand on the table. He knew what
was coming.
“I’m OSPREY.”
OceanofPDF.com
93
PETER WEIGHED THE truth of it—Travers as the original source, as an
ally—while he studied the president: the black hair with the gray at the
temples, the easy posture of a former athlete, the eyes never wavering from
his own.
Even after everything he’d been through, Peter found himself wanting
to believe Travers, which was dangerous.
“First, I want you to know that both of you are out of harm’s way,”
Travers said.
Peter glanced to the agent with the gun at the head of the table.
“You came to me before, Peter, with your doubts. And I understand why
you might not trust me now. Farr wasn’t alone in this. Others worked with
her.”
“The Secret Service agent, Akana.”
“Yes. Everything Diane did with the Russians she did without my
knowledge. Akana was working with her, and I suspect there were others.
They were trying to keep this from me. Akana saw when you came to me at
the basketball game. I didn’t know he was part of this. He interceded, tried
to make you disappear.”
“He tried to kill me.”
Travers swallowed, pained. “The safe house on North Capitol? I had no
part in that. It was their last-ditch attempt to keep it from me. I’ve had
suspicions that something was wrong for a long time, but I didn’t know who
was behind it. I’ve been looking for you, for both of you, desperately since
last night. I want to help.”
“What do you want in exchange?” Peter asked.
“Nothing.”
Travers took a chair out and sat, then held his hands out toward the
table, inviting them to do the same. He moved like a humbled man, but his
power still seemed to fill the room, charge the air like static electricity. Rose
edged around the table toward Peter, wary of the agent’s gun.
Her hand brushed against his, and he took it. He wanted to hold her,
protect her with his body, but he didn’t want to set off the agent. He and
Rose both seemed to understand they needed to keep their guard up, to stay
calm, in command.
She took a chair to his left, leaving one empty between them, and Peter
sat, facing the president across the table.
“You know I’m an outsider here,” Travers said. “I think you’ve seen
enough of the White House to understand that the presidency is the most
powerful office in the world, but in a way it’s a prison.”
It was true. Travers couldn’t take a walk around the block. He couldn’t
even open his windows.
“Farr had a lot of power. Every meeting, every piece of paper. Everyone
I wanted to see except for my family, it all went through her. Everything
coming to me was against escalation with Russia in Eastern Europe, said
that it would only embolden the pro-Russian forces, provoke the Kremlin. I
didn’t know why everything pointed in the direction of accommodating
Russia. I didn’t know it was Farr. But I’ve suspected there was someone
disloyal in my house for a long time.”
“Is it true about the train crash?” Peter asked. “The interference in the
election?”
“So far everything you’ve put out there checks out, and we will run it all
down. We’re going to get you someplace safe while we do.”
Peter pressed his palms to the table. That hadn’t worked out well last
time.
“You have every reason to be wary. That’s why I’m here. That’s why I
have a twenty-four-agent detail from the Secret Service, and official cars.
This is a public matter now. This”—he put his hand on the ledger—“is with
Ashford and Berson and McLintock right now.” The CIA and FBI directors,
and the attorney general. “I would like you to talk with them as soon as
possible.”
“Has it been translated yet?”
“Yes. The Russia desk at the NSC is already working on it. It shows
more than a dozen meetings Farr took, and who she took them with, along
with planning notes for the Metro attack. It should be enough to attribute it
all to the Russian services and ID the entities behind the election
interference. We will run everything down to the last detail. This isn’t going
away. I won’t let it.”
“And the meeting at the Hay-Adams?”
The president hesitated, seeming surprised that Peter knew about a
potential deal.
“It’s off,” Travers said. “Farr had been pushing me to work with the
Kremlin, avoid confrontation at all costs. They counted on me being
malleable. Maybe they would have tried to put leverage on me to go along.
It doesn’t matter now. I sent the secretary of state in my place with a simple
message: no deals. Russia makes one move in Europe and we fight back.
And if Vikhrov doesn’t get his troops off the border in forty-eight hours,
we’ll ram a NATO armored column down his throat.”
Travers looked at Peter’s hand, his arm.
“You need a doctor.”
Peter glanced down at his fingers. “I do,” he said coldly.
“You don’t believe me?” Travers asked.
“I don’t know.”
“Maybe I’m trying to get ahead of the scandal, now that it’s public?”
“That would be the smart move.”
“It’s fair. Why would I open up a matter that would destroy me?”
“Yes.”
“You know I wasn’t supposed to be president. My family wasn’t happy
about it. It’s a circus. But there was a lot of momentum building. I wasn’t
supposed to win the primary, and I sure wasn’t supposed to win the general.
It felt like an experiment, to see how far they could bring a candidate with
no pull, no real political experience. People liked me because I was new, an
outsider. I hadn’t had time to make enemies. I overheard a fund-raiser
joking about it once: they called me a ‘host body.’ A face for the poster.
During the campaign and even more so now, I was in a bubble.
“Everything you say gets tested by the pollsters. Every piece of paper
and conversation gets filtered through someone’s interest. Everyone thinks
the president is the most powerful person in the world, because you’re so
visible. You get all of the flak, but so little real power. You can make some
changes if everything lines up perfectly, but for the most part you’re the
rope in a tug-of-war between Washington lifers and the special interests that
own them.
“I knew that going in. I was humble. I would learn as much as I could
and try to make the right calls. During the election, some things didn’t add
up. The story kept changing on that train crash—I know you were there,
you remember. And then everything broke my way, every bit of bad news
for the other candidate, all those scandals that took apart her team.
“I know things get ugly during a campaign. I asked around. I knew that
there would be some hardball, and I was fine with it. But I needed to know.
And everyone I asked and everyone I talked to told me the same thing: we
had nothing to do with all of those scandals coming to light. Just got lucky.
“What I can’t stand for is people lying to me. And every single one of
those people on my team all said the same thing. ‘We don’t know anything
about these leaks.’ It didn’t add up.
“Now I’m in office, I’m getting white papers and memos and briefings.
I’m dealing with the full spectrum of risks for the US and the world. I know
that I was placed here and I know that someone’s hiding something from
me. I don’t know who or what to believe. Do you know what it’s like to
benefit from something you can’t trust?”
“I do.” Peter had spent years going over his favorite memories of
childhood, searching out the taint of his father’s corruption. That trip to the
Outer Banks, where he bodysurfed his first wave, was that because his
father had gotten a payout from the SVR? Was it blood money?
“I guess you know that I don’t like people to take it easy on me, and I
don’t like to be patronized,” Travers said.
Peter had seen that much on the basketball court. Letting him win,
faking it—you’d be barred for life.
“There were policies, like this Russian accommodation they were
working on, that I didn’t like. I needed to find out who was being straight
with me.”
He turned to Rose.
“Did you know anything about your aunt and uncle’s work?”
“Only secondhand, after they died,” Rose said. “They were FBI,
counterintelligence.”
“They were some of the bravest, most dedicated people that have ever
served this country. I wanted to know what had really happened during the
election. I wanted to know whose interests I was serving. I didn’t have any
real evidence. It wasn’t the kind of thing you’d bring to the FBI to
investigate, to open an official file. What if I was wrong?
“You are read in on a lot of secrets after you take the oath, and I learned
about two cases your aunt and uncle had handled. I knew that they were
discreet and fair and relentless and owed nothing to anyone. When I talked
to them, they confirmed that they had heard rumors, just rumors at that
point, of foreign influence. So I asked for their help in an unofficial
capacity. I wanted to know what happened.”
“The original source,” Rose said. “OSPREY.”
“Yes. I told them everything I knew and everything that concerned me.”
“You sicced investigators on yourself?” Peter asked.
“I did. I wanted them to run with it. No one around me was giving me
the straight story. I didn’t want to interfere. So I handed it off to them, and
told them to go to Hawkins and Farr if they needed anything. She was my
closest confidante outside of my family, and Hawkins’s reputation was
impeccable.”
“She took over the investigation so that she could stamp out any
evidence of what she did,” Rose said.
“So it seems.”
“And, with respect,” Peter added, “how can we be sure you’re not coopting this now, putting yourself on the right side?”
“Right now, you can’t. But this job isn’t worth selling my soul. It’s
humbling, you know. The responsibility, the nuclear codes and attack plans,
the people you meet who put their faith in you, the letters you read every
night. I knew it would be hard, but I never knew I’d be so disappointed by
the people who I thought would help me—Congress, my own party.
They’re only loyal to their donors.
“You have to go on, to do the best you can, smiling while a dozen
cameras shine and snap in your face, and three dozen reporters bark
questions at you. You have to watch every word, to play a role, because a
single mistake could crash the Dow or trigger an international crisis. There
are days you want to say to hell with it, to blow the whole thing up and
bring the temple down on your head. But that’s just acting out. Because this
job, this responsibility, is the greatest honor in the world. So you smile and
do your best, put up with all the bullshit and try to do what good you can.
Except for this—”
He stabbed his finger down on the ledger. “Your aunt and uncle were
good people,” he said to Rose. “They didn’t deserve this. And I’m culpable.
I started them in on this, and now I’m going to finish it. This is treason.
This is murder. This is worth crashing the whole fucking thing down on my
head and taking everyone with me. So don’t trust a word I’m saying. Watch
what I do.”
He stood. “Are you ready?”
“Where are we going?” Peter asked.
“To tell their story.”
OceanofPDF.com
94
FIVE BLACK SUVS had parked in a circle around the entrance to the
building, and Peter counted at least twenty agents covering them with M4
rifles as they were hustled out to one of the vehicles. The door was four
inches thick. Peter and Rose took the bench seat opposite Travers.
They drove to the West Wing and entered through the southwest gate.
The president marched them straight to the medical office, where the same
navy captain from the other night cleaned and stitched Peter’s wounds.
After making sure they were up for it, Travers took them down the hall,
but Peter stopped outside the press secretary’s suite. On the TV over the
assistant’s desk, CNN played.
A correspondent stood outside the West Wing—about four hundred feet
away from where Peter was now—and talked about a string of suspicious
deaths over the last forty-eight hours in Washington, DC, and reports, so far
unconfirmed, that a foreign intelligence service was suspected to have a
role.
“Our sources indicate that this may be part of a multiyear operation
against the United States, including interference in last year’s election.”
Peter turned to Travers. He had sent the evidence himself, but it was
still surreal to see secrets that people had died for broadcast on the nightly
news.
“It’s all starting,” he said.
Travers nodded and held his hand out to the side. They went down to
the Situation Room’s iconic command center, where the FBI director and
the attorney general joined them in person, and the CIA director by
videoconference.
This was going to be a long night, the first of many. The ledger had
already made the rounds. Slowly, point by point, Peter and Rose laid out the
contours of the story as the most powerful men in Washington listened and
quizzed them, looking increasingly grim as they realized the scale of what
they were dealing with.
There were questions, of course, there would be years of questions, of
testimony, of depositions. It was the FBI director who finally asked:
“When’s the last time you two slept? Or ate something?”
Peter had to think about that. They called it for the night.
As they all exited the Situation Room, Peter finally let himself believe,
for a moment, that he and Rose would make it out of this.
They had shared what they knew at the highest level and been seen in
the White House with Travers even after they made it public. That would
serve as insurance against them disappearing, but Travers wanted to
reassure them further.
He put them up at Blair House, a brick mansion on Lafayette Square,
across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House, where visiting
dignitaries often stay, and the president, by tradition, spends the night
before inauguration.
It was an odd space, constructed from four nineteenth-century town
houses that looked separate and distinct from the outside, while inside they
had been unified into one large guesthouse, essentially the president’s own
luxury hotel. The kitchen sent up pasta primavera and brownies—the old
Kennedy recipe.
Peter stayed in the shower for what felt like twenty minutes, letting the
water wash away the blood and grime, and two days of fear and sweat. He
came out clean, his skin flushed from the heat. Rose had a room next door,
but as he passed it, he saw it was empty and then caught a glimpse of her
through the door to his room.
He stepped inside and found her stretched out under the comforter.
“This bed,” she said, eyes closed, palms to the ceiling.
Peter climbed in next to her. Any bed would have felt like a cloud after
what he’d been through, but this was even better than he had imagined.
“Are we safe?”
“Yes,” Peter said. “It’s over. The hard part at least.”
Rose let out a long sigh of relief. After a moment, she said, “God, this
place is weird.”
Peter laughed. The house made him feel like he was sleeping in a
museum display: everyday life in the American colonies. Rose muttered
something. Her eyes were already closed.
“What was that?”
“I’m stealing that mug.”
She’d brought it in and left it on the nightstand. It was a standard White
House guest mug, blue with a satisfying heft and the presidential seal.
“Go for it.”
She didn’t respond. She was already out. Peter pulled the sheets and
blankets up to her chin. He lay down, and she rolled closer and draped her
arm over him. Peter closed his eyes, and sleep came in an instant.
OceanofPDF.com
95
PETER WALKED ROSE across the street to the West Wing the next
morning. There had been a message waiting for them at breakfast. The
president wanted to see them. They used the visitors’ entrance, and as the
marine guard pulled open the door, Travers was waiting for them in
reception.
There were a few pleasantries about how their night was at Blair House,
but the president’s presence was the real point. This wouldn’t be hidden
away. He escorted them down the hallway, and as he walked out Peter saw
the newspapers folded neatly on the side table. There was a two-column
headline at the top of the New York Times: “Intelligence Agencies
Investigate Russian Operation Against the US.”
The Post had a package on the story, covering a quarter of the front
page. They were already starting to corroborate the ledger.
Travers led Peter and Rose past the offices of the senior personnel and
into the Oval.
It was another formal museum room, with the Resolute desk facing
down a pair of sofas. Physically, it was less impressive than the room Peter
had read about in all those histories. But as he stepped across the deep blue
carpet, he felt like he was on a stage before thousands.
Travers gestured to one of the sofas, and Peter and Rose sat.
“How are you holding up?” he asked.
Rose looked to Peter, then Travers. “We’re fine, Mr. President.”
“Good. It’s hard to convey how overwhelming a full press from the
media and Congress will be once this really gets going,” he said. “You
should be prepared. You’ll need a lawyer. The White House counsel
suggested a few names. They’re all attorneys at different firms.”
“Defense?”
“No. More of a guide. They specialize in crisis communications and
ushering people through confirmations. They can keep the press at bay and
help you deal with this kind of scrutiny. Of course, feel free to reach out to
others and get referrals on your own. This is going to be a three-ring circus
once the full scale of it comes out, and a lot of people will use anything they
can about your past and your family to destroy you.”
Peter remembered the TV lights shining through his childhood
bedroom, the correspondents doing stand-ups on the sidewalk at the height
of his father’s scandal: day after day inside with the blinds drawn, eating
take-out and mercy casseroles from the folks at church.
“I’ve been through it before.”
Travers nodded, his lips pressed together.
“Where is Farr? And Akana?” Peter asked.
“We have them both in custody. Investigating and prosecuting all of this
will be a long process, but I guarantee we will see it through, no matter
where it leads. I brought you here to express my gratitude more formally for
what you’ve done. You both risked your lives. Peter, I know the challenges
you faced, for years, and I am grateful we had you standing watch. And
Rose, you and your family have sacrificed more than anyone could ever
ask. The foundations of who we are as a democracy were under threat, and
we couldn’t have stopped it without you. So personally, and on behalf of the
country, thank you.”
Peter dipped his head solemnly and let the silence linger for a moment.
“If anything comes up,” Travers said, “anything, you can reach me
directly, here.” He took a slip of paper from the side of the table and wrote
out a number. “Day or night.” With the last word, his eyes went to Peter.
“Are you asking us to keep you informed?” Rose asked.
“No. I will stay out of your way, unless you need help. There will be a
special prosecutor, grand juries, congressional panels. I ask only one thing:
hold nothing back. Give us hell.”
Rose smiled and took the paper.
“Absolutely,” Peter said.
OceanofPDF.com
96
PETER AND ROSE rented a place in the Shenandoah Valley, just outside
Sperryville, to get away from the madness in DC as the scandal broke.
It was a two-bedroom cottage set among the horse farms and hollows,
and the FBI set up security for them as witnesses. Even in the depths of
winter, Peter ran the hills and ridges every day, for hours sometimes. He
had missed the sun, missed daylight.
He and Rose did a lot of cooking and listening to music, and they would
go upstairs and wear each other out in that delirious way of new love, or in
the living room, or on the upstairs deck if they caught a warm day, hidden
from view behind a white-planked railing.
It reminded Rose, she told him, of what her aunt and uncle had together,
how they managed to keep it burning for decades, even on that last night.
Some part of it was simply the pleasure of reveling in life, of a new chapter,
after so much had been lost.
It felt easy and natural, the same way each one of them could pick up
when the other wanted time to be alone, to think through the gravity of what
they had survived and what lay ahead.
They both knew that their lives, every hard thing in their pasts, were
being scoured and paraded across cable news. Peter had wrapped the cord
around the TV and put it in the shed. The house was mostly quiet, except
when they brought out Rose’s aunt and uncle’s records and set to work
prepping dinner on the kitchen counter looking out at the woods, a bottle of
wine open on the island. There was one album, he noticed, that Rose would
never play, that she always flicked past quickly in the crates.
They were at the center of the storm, but the distance and quiet helped them
weather it. Peter and Rose went back and forth to DC often, and sometimes
they would take the Campbells’ old Mercedes, now pushing 240,000 miles
and mechanically perfect. Henry had left it to Rose in the will. They would
hide out in a hotel between grand jury testimony and interviews with the
special prosecutor.
Counterintelligence investigations are some of the longest and most
complex cases handled by the FBI. This one just kept expanding.
At its center was Farr, who after a lifetime of being other people’s
deputy or chief of staff, and running the show with little of the credit, began
to imagine herself a kingmaker. Travers’s campaign was an experiment of
sorts. No one thought he would win, so she felt there would be little harm in
taking all the help she could get, even from donors, investors, and lobbyists
with foreign ties. Some of them were on the Kremlin’s payroll.
Farr thought the train attack was supposed to be nothing more than a
demonstration of force, to embarrass Travers’s opponent in the election. She
and her backers seemed to think it would be little more than a prank, or
dirty trick, halting the trains during one rush hour, and she even rationalized
that it would draw much-needed attention to cybersecurity. They didn’t
account for how the Metro was always one mistake away from a fatal
disaster.
After the crash, the Russians owned Farr. There was no way she would
cross them and implicate herself in the murder of Americans. Some
speculated that the Russians had crashed the train on purpose, in order to
get that kind of leverage on her, but it was never proven.
Russian intelligence began eliminating anyone who could have exposed
the truth, and Farr tried to tell herself at the beginning that the first deaths,
however convenient, were accidents. As Dimitri Sokolov killed more
witnesses, there was no way Farr could deny that she was complicit in
murder. By then she was all in, afraid for her own life if she didn’t go along.
She played that card in her defense, but the investigators ultimately
nailed down her part in the murder of Hawkins, and of Rose’s aunt and
uncle.
For now, she was at the US Penitentiary in Hazelton, West Virginia.
“Relieved, actually,” Peter’s lawyer pointed out.
Peter saw her only once, on an icy January morning outside the District
Court in downtown DC, as federal marshals ushered her to a waiting SUV.
She wore a long dove-gray coat over a bulletproof vest. Their eyes met for
an instant as a marshal guided her into the back seat.
She betrayed the Kremlin’s thugs, and prison was one of the few places
she was safe. She would be there for life, depending on how the final
charges came down. If she ever did see the sun again, she would have to
live knowing that around every corner, behind every door, a Russian bullet
might be waiting.
What Travers had told Peter—that he had first reached out to Rose’s
aunt and uncle, and had no part in Farr’s plot—stood up.
Plans swirled in the House to impeach him, though he had dropped hints
throughout the whole affair that he was only staying in office long enough
to make sure everyone involved was held accountable.
His political opponents went after him for having stolen the presidency.
His own party paid him lip service but had their knives out because he had
brought the whole thing to light. Sworn enemies on both sides of the aisle
were united in their disdain for the man who had put out the truth.
Washington hated Travers, but as he pushed for more sunlight on the
scandal, his standing with the public and his poll numbers went higher and
higher.
He called a Rose Garden press conference in early spring. There were
rumors he would hand out pardons or kick off his reelection campaign.
Instead he announced that he would not run again.
He hadn’t been involved, but he still benefited from Farr’s crimes, and
the country deserved a clean start. That was the final proof that Travers had
rooted out every element of the scandal, not in order to save himself
politically, but because it was the right thing to do. The indictments had all
been handed out. The investigation was in good hands. He would finish his
term and step down, the work complete.
OceanofPDF.com
97
IT WAS PETER’S last day at the White House. He and Rose had finished
most of their interviews and testimony. Their part in all this was nearly
over. Their lease in the Shenandoah was up.
He had to sign a stack of papers to formally end his job on the watch.
He went through them in the Sit Room, took a last look at his old desk and
phone, swapped his badge out for a visitor sticker, and left.
At the top of the stairs, he was crossing toward the north exit when he
saw a young man, maybe twenty-five or twenty-six, standing and looking
down at a slip of paper. He seemed lost.
Peter gave a friendly nod as he passed.
“Excuse me?” the man asked.
“Yes?” Peter said.
“I was looking for the deputy national security advisor’s office.”
Peter had already noticed the spit and polish on the black oxfords, the
white shirt, navy suit, and perfect half-Windsor tie knot. It was either his
first day or his first time at the White House for a meeting, and the guy had
that shine. He could have been Peter a little over a year ago. Even in the
middle of all this mess, eagerness and awe and respect for this place were
beaming off him like sunlight.
Peter smiled. “Turn right and it’s at the end of the hall on your left.”
“Thank you, sir.”
The country had been through worse crises. It would survive this.
He walked out onto Pennsylvania without looking back.
It was a chill April morning. The dogwoods were blooming. He had
always thought they were cherry blossoms, and Rose had never succeeded
in getting him to be able to tell the difference.
She was waiting, double-parked on G Street. “How’d it go?” she asked.
“Easy enough.”
“And how are you doing?”
He thought about it for a moment. He’d been running on instinct for as
long as he could remember, trying to answer for his father’s crimes, to
answer those voices calling out for help. And now, he had done his part. He
had stood his watch. He was free. He and Rose were going to get in that old
Benz and get out of DC. They didn’t know what came next, but they would
figure it out. They had time. They had each other.
“Great,” he said, looking up at the porcelain-blue sky. “Did you see
those cherry blossoms?”
Rose laughed and didn’t take the bait. “You mind if we stop
somewhere?”
“Sure.”
She drove past the Naval Observatory and the National Cathedral to her
aunt and uncle’s house. They went inside. It was spotless, the blood washed
clean, like nothing had ever happened.
They stood in silence. Peter put his arm around her shoulders.
After about five minutes she shut her eyes and took a deep breath.
“You want some time alone?”
She nodded and squeezed his hand. He walked back to the driveway.
He heard her, just barely, in the moments the wind was still. She was
singing an old Stevie Wonder tune, and her voice was beautiful, and clear,
and strong.
She came out a few minutes later. She’d been crying, he could tell, but
her face was full of relief. She offered him a bittersweet smile.
“Are you okay?”
“I am.” She said it like it was news to her, then she wrapped her arms
around him. “I am.”
OceanofPDF.com
Acknowledgments
THANKS TO MY family, especially Ellen Quirk, my mother (and my high
school journalism teacher), who’s there for every draft. They turn each plot
bind into an excuse to jump on the phone or take a hike, and never fail to
crack me up and rescue me from my bad habits.
I made some career moves recently, trying something a little riskier with
this book, and was absolutely overwhelmed by the generosity and support
of the thriller-writing and publishing crowd. The murder and mayhem
world is full of sweethearts paying it forward. Joseph Finder and Gregg
Hurwitz offered invaluable help and advice, and saved the day as surely as
the heroes in their pages. Thanks as well to Alex Berenson, Allison
Brennan, Sean Chercover, Marcia Clark, Ben Coes, J. T. Ellison, Chris
Holm, Joshua Hood, Jesse Kellerman, Michael Koryta, Brad Parks, Chris
Pavone, and Marcus Sakey.
I had the great fortune to have Dan Conaway by my side on this story
from the beginning. An unbelievably talented agent and editor and just a
great guy, he is dedicated to his writers and books to a degree I hadn’t
imagined possible.
And I am still a little awestruck that I found a home with the wonderful
team at William Morrow—Liate Stehlik, Andy LeCount, Eliza Rosenberry,
Kaitlin Harri, and Chloe Moffett—and had the opportunity to work with
David Highfill, who believed in this novel and improved it tremendously.
He’s a pleasure to talk to and an artist with a red pen.
Thanks to all of my DC friends for keeping me sharp and letting this exreporter feel like he’s still in the loop. I’ll mention Adam Kushner, Mike
Melia, Josh Green, Julian Sanchez, and Garrett Graff, though there are so
many writers and journalists doing extraordinary work right now. Thanks to
Allison Archambault and Steven Davis for putting a roof over my head in
the District (and a walipini under my feet!). And to John MacGaffin and
Peter Higgins for taking the time to talk about their careers at the FBI and
CIA. I took some liberties with real-world details here and there in the text,
including a few particulars of FBI roles and training.
Thanks to my wife, Heather Burke, for the best ten years of my life and
for revealing herself as a national security sage, and to all of her classmates
and professors at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International
Studies for the good times in DC and abroad and the quiet work they do in
their day jobs.
And finally, thanks to the friend of mine whose long nights inspired this
book.
OceanofPDF.com
An Excerpt from HOUR OF THE
ASSASSIN
OceanofPDF.com
1
Assassination is a tense, sweaty business. So Nick Averose found it odd, as
he sat inside this bush for the fifty-third minute, how cozy his spot had
become. Berry and pine scented the air, and the little enclosure reminded
him of childhood games. He could almost forget the Smith & Wesson
hanging on his hip and the knife sheath in a horizontal draw on his belt.
The air shook with the sound of a heavy V-8. Nick pressed his back
against the brick wall at the base of the fence. The six-bedroom mansion
was all stone with slate roofs, fit for an Ivy League campus, though its
perimeter was more appropriate for a military installation. It seemed
unbreachable without raising the alarm.
But every defense had its weakness. Nothing was perfect. No one was
safe. Nick had to believe that, to prove it tonight and every night.
As the black Chevy Suburban pulled up the driveway, Nick stole toward
it. The faint blue glow of a cell phone lit the interior and the face of his
target, Malcolm Widener, the former director of the CIA. The job was
simple enough: kill him with no trace.
Once Widener had commanded an army of spies and paramilitaries, and a
round-the-clock detail from the agency’s Security Protective Service had
lived on this property. Now he worked for a global hedge fund, trading on
what and who he knew. His company provided him with the best guards
money could buy.
There were a few ways to get through that fence, but the easiest was the
most obvious and the most dangerous: the front driveway. All Nick needed
was a stalking horse and some way to open the wrought iron gate.
Widener’s own vehicle would do both.
Nick waited, taking measured breaths as the gate rattled back. When the
Suburban rolled forward, he stepped onto the driveway and walked toward
the car’s rear right tire, moving in a fast crouch in its blind spot.
Getting through that gate was the crux of the entry. He knew the
compound’s layout by heart. Once inside, he moved in a careful
choreography: dart right into the blind spot of the southwest corner camera,
sprint to the hanging vines of the pergola, duck behind the stonework of the
outdoor kitchen, then wait one hundred and forty seconds. He stared at the
faint green glow of his watch, cupped in his hands, while a drop of sweat
rolled down his lower back. Footsteps hushed across the lawn. A
flashlight’s beam swung toward him and glinted off the grill.
It lit up the grass behind him and the other side of the stone wall where
he had taken cover but left him in a long shadow. The light swung away.
The guard moved on, barely a minute off schedule. The security, armed
with SIG semiautos, worked methodically through any spots the cameras
wouldn’t touch.
Nick waited ten seconds, stood, and continued on, his eyes on the guard’s
back, staying fifty feet behind him, relying on the fact that the man’s
attention would be focused ahead. If he turned around, he could easily put a
pair of nine-millimeter holes in Nick’s heart.
He stalked in the man’s slipstream toward the rear of the house, then cut
under the south portico and took up a post next to a door of breakproof
glass. He could see inside, down a long corridor lined with landscapes,
family portraits, and a few classical pieces in marble.
His fingers closed on an acrylic box the size of a pack of cigarettes in his
pocket. He stood close to the white circle next to the door, where access
cards were swiped. Widener came around the corner at the far end of the
hall and walked straight toward him.
Nick waited, calm. Because it was dark outside and light within, he knew
that Widener could see only his own reflection, but that did little to kill the
eerie feeling of staring eye to eye at his target.
Widener came closer, until he was six feet away, then turned right down a
hall as Nick pressed a button on the side of his device. It was a Proxmark
amplifier—he’d built it himself—that boosted the signal between the key
fob in Widener’s pocket and the receiver by the door. The lock slid back
with an expensive, beautifully engineered silence.
Nick opened the door an inch, waited a few seconds, then entered,
trailing Widener on the long runner across the herringbone floor. He was
moving away from the living room toward a set of stairs that led to the
upper floors, where Widener would be most vulnerable.
Nick followed him as he went upstairs and disappeared into the bedroom
suite. Nick didn’t enter, just listened to the sounds of running water as he
continued to the top floor and turned left into Widener’s office. An antique
desk commanded half the room, facing the windows and a sitting area with
two club chairs, a sofa, and a wall-mounted television.
Moonlight filtered in. Nick looked over the frames on the wall. There
were class portraits from St. Albans and Georgetown, and shots of Widener
with the past two US presidents, with prime ministers, with senators. These
were real photos of friends, of intimates, not staged handshakes at fundraisers.
Nick had spent a decade in the Secret Service. He had once protected
men like this, which had taught him how to get to them. He crossed the
room and tucked into a dark nook where a copier and office supplies were
stacked.
Through a window, Nick had a view of the driveway and the staff cars
parked beside the garage. The wife was in New York. He could see
everyone coming and going, would know when he was alone with Widener,
when no one would be around to hear him call for help.
Widener entered, now without his jacket and tie, and switched on a lamp.
He poured himself a small glass of scotch and added a few drops of water,
as he did every night. A man of routine.
It would be easy enough to do it now. Killing wasn’t the difficult thing,
though it was harder, louder, and shabbier than most suspected. Killing and
getting away was the true test.
Widener sat at his desk, his back to Nick. He flipped on the TV, tuned to
a Hoyas basketball game, then pulled his laptop toward him and set to
work.
Nick stepped out of the shadows. One turn, one careful look, and
Widener would see him. But people so rarely stop to examine the familiar
world around them. We walk blindly through this life.
This was the most difficult part: to hold, silent and still, in the same room
as the mark, even as the adrenaline raced through his body like flame up a
fuse.
Time was his weapon, isolating them. Nick watched through the window
as the housekeeper pulled out in her Honda.
Malcolm Widener would have a place in the history books. But at the end
of the day, he was just a man, sitting alone and vulnerable. Following
someone this closely inevitably created sympathy. Nick used it as a tool to
put himself inside a target’s head. Now he tuned it out. This was a job, and
he was a professional.
The gate opened and closed. One guard remained on the property,
finishing his patrol before he went to check the security feeds from a post
inside the pool house. There were no cameras here. Nick was inside the
sanctum. It was time.
He closed on Widener with silent steps, stood behind him, and touched
his fingers to the sheath.
Nick didn’t draw a knife or gun. In his other hand he held a small
envelope marked “Indicator of Compromise.” He laid it on the ground a
few feet from the chair and stepped back into the shadows.
Tonight everything was real but the killing.
OceanofPDF.com
2
Nick waited for his moment, with Widener’s eyes fixed on the game, then
slipped through the side door into the back hall.
He took the rear stairs down and crossed to the front door, doublechecking for the guard, timing his exit.
Heavy steps sounded from the top of the main staircase. He turned and
saw the former CIA director staring down at him, holding his drink in one
hand and Nick’s letter in the other.
“So you’re the red team?” he called down.
“Yes, sir,” Nick said, doing his best to keep the smile off his face.
“And I’m dead?”
“In this scenario, yes.”
Widener took a sip of scotch and raised his glass.
“Well roll away the stone. Come up here.”
Nick was a security consultant. He posed as a threat in order to find the
weaknesses in anyone’s defenses, testing systems under real-life conditions,
as he had done tonight. The profession was known in its different varieties
as red-teaming, security auditing, or penetration testing.
Nick had worked protective details as a marine before he joined the
Secret Service, where he had learned to put himself into the mind of the
adversary, to live the part.
Clients normally needed to be handled with kid gloves, but Widener was
oddly unfazed. He’d run the agency. He was used to living in a bubble of
guards and bug sweeps and assuming everyone around him was watching
and listening.
“We don’t have to go over everything now,” Nick said. “I don’t want to
put you out.”
“Any more than breaking into my house and killing me? No, come on up.
I want to know how you did it.”
Nick climbed the stairs and followed Widener into his office. He sat
behind his desk while Nick stood in front.
“I got the email from Aegis saying they’d be testing security,” he said. “I
didn’t expect anything this intense.” Aegis was the company that handled
Widener’s protection and employed the guards Nick had slipped past.
Widener looked over the letter. It was proof of a successful break-in,
lovingly known as the “you’re dead” letter.
He studied Nick’s face. “Have we met before?”
“Not formally. I was Secret Service when you were the president’s
briefer.”
“You were on the West Wing detail.”
“That’s right.”
Widener sat back, his shoulders relaxing. Nick could see that had won
him some trust.
“What’s your name?” he asked.
“Nick Averose.”
“Malcolm,” Widener said, then stood and shook Nick’s hand across the
desk, his palm like leather.
Nick was impressed. Guys like him were often invisible to someone at
Widener’s level, just part of the scenery. When he’d first seen the former
director, a man with the natural dignity of a weathered elm, he’d imagined
he’d be reserved and a little haughty, but face-to-face he was all old-school
establishment charm and ease.
“And now you work for Aegis?” he asked.
“I contract with them,” Nick said. “You should have been briefed on the
scope of tonight’s test. I have the paperwork here,” Nick said, and pointed
to his pocket.
Widener nodded. Nick slowly pulled out a second piece of paper, a letter
of authorization. He passed it across the desk. Red-teamers always carried a
contract with the client’s signature, just in case they ever ran into trouble
with the law and needed to prove they were on a security audit. The
industry shorthand for it was “a get-out-of-jail-free card.”
Widener looked it over.
“The guard outside?”
“I made it past him. He’s still there.”
“Are you armed?” he asked.
“An unloaded pistol and an empty knife sheath. Everything is as realistic
as possible.”
“Show me.”
Nick cocked his head and considered the request. It felt intensely wrong
to draw the pistol, even unloaded, on a man like Widener.
“Slowly,” Widener said. “Just finger and thumb on the grip.”
Nick showed the sheath and then reached inside his jacket and brought
the gun out like a cop holding a piece of evidence. He laid it on the desk.
Widener nodded gravely, then checked that the chamber and magazine
were empty.
“And how do you go about it? Killing me?”
Nick weighed his answer. There was a danger in getting too real with a
client.
“Indulge me,” Widener said. “Surely you know how it’s done.” He took a
sip and waited.
“The knife,” Nick said.
“To keep it quiet?”
“Yes.”
“Odd way to make a living,” Widener said, his eyes on the gun. “Why
did you leave the Service?”
“I got married. It was time.”
Widener nodded. It’s hard to be a family man when your job is catching
bullets. “So my company spends whatever ungodly sum of money on all
this security, and I’m still dead.”
“The system is one of the best I’ve seen on a private residence.”
“Then—no offense—why are you sneaking up on me with a gun?”
“Nothing is perfect and no one is safe.”
Widener regarded him, and Nick realized he had spoken it like the article
of faith that it was.
“Your setup is damn close.”
“What needs fixing?”
“This may sound odd, but I would encourage the guards to be a little less
punctual.”
“Too predictable?”
“That’s right. And there are some firmware updates you can make on the
access card system.”
Widener looked Nick up and down, noting the dark pants, the running
shoes, the button-down under his jacket.
“I was expecting . . .”
“A black turtleneck? Fatigues?”
Widener laughed. “I guess so.” He pointed to the gun. “Those guards
could have killed you.”
“It’s a real-world test. And that’s why I don’t wear the turtleneck. No one
gets shot to death in business casual.”
The other man nodded, seemed to appreciate the point.
“I’ll send a report to Aegis covering everything in detail,” Nick said. “A
few tweaks and no one will be able to get to you.”
Widener narrowed his eyes. “You will.”
Nick took a moment, trying to get a read on him.
“I’m fucking with you,” he said, and tapped the signature on the contract.
“Do you have the email for this woman from Aegis? Alexandra Hart.”
She was the company lawyer who had contacted Nick and arranged this
test.
“Sure. You didn’t talk to her?”
“No.”
Nick crossed his arms. That wasn’t right. She’d said she had cleared this
with Widener personally. He took a step back and looked out the window.
Tss tss. The noise came faint through the window on the other side. It
sounded like a rattrap snapping, but Nick knew it in an instant.
Silenced shots.
Nick turned and rushed to the other window as time seemed to slow, the
seconds like minutes, his vision narrowing to a tunnel as he scanned the
yard.
A still form lay on the ground. The guard was down.
Like what you just read? Click here to buy HOUR
OF THE ASSASSIN.
OceanofPDF.com
About the Author
MATTHEW QUIRK is the New York Times bestselling author of The 500,
The Directive, Cold Barrel Zero, and Dead Man Switch. He spent five years
at The Atlantic reporting on crime, private military contractors, terrorism
prosecutions, and international gangs. He lives in San Diego, California.
matthewquirk.com
Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at hc.com.
OceanofPDF.com
Praise for The Night Agent
“The Night Agent rocks. Fast as hell, especially with Quirk’s steady hand in
control. This story is impossible to put out of mind once you enter this lookover-your-shoulder shadow world. Relevant and revealing, this is one of the
best thrillers to come along in years.”
—Michael Connelly
“Baldacci’s debut [Absolute Power] kept me awake half the night. I’m still
a fan . . . I had the same reaction when I picked up The Night Agent . . . Best
to start this at the beginning of a weekend, as you’ll be burning the
midnight oil ’til you’re finished.”
—Newark Star-Ledger
“The Night Agent is a whirlwind of a book, a captivating narrative that takes
us inside the White House’s inner sanctum and the shadowy machinations
surrounding it. A powerful and taut thriller.”
—Mark Greaney, #1 bestselling author of Mission Critical
“Matthew Quirk moves into David Baldacci and John Grisham territory
with The Night Agent, a paranoid, pulse-pounding thriller that could not be
more prescient. If you’re wondering where the best of the next generation
of suspense talent is headed, look no further.”
—Joseph Finder
“Strap in for one hell of a ride. The Night Agent is full of twists and
surprises you’ll never see coming.”
—Ben Coes, New York Times bestselling author of Bloody Sunday
“Plenty of breathless one-more-chapter, stay-up-late suspense wrapped
around a meaty and timely story . . . Irresistible.”
—Lee Child
“Matthew Quirk is rapidly proving himself to be among our finest thriller
writers, and The Night Agent is the latest undeniable evidence. Quirk writes
rapid-fire, page-turning action with unusual grace and intelligence, and his
latest American nightmare is guaranteed to keep readers up late.”
—Michael Koryta, New York Times bestselling author of How It Happened
“Quirk’s chilling and modern scenario of foreign influence reaching into the
highest reaches of government will be thoroughly enjoyed by political
thriller junkies.”
—Library Journal (★Starred Review★)
“Quirk returns to the thriller scene with a thundering bang . . . Quirk’s latest
feels like he’s been churning out political thrillers for decades, hitting on a
timely plot that starts out fast and only speeds up as the story unfolds . . .
[A] high-stakes, nail-biting political thriller.”
—TheRealBookSpy.com
“Lots of good, tense plotting . . . A real pleasure of espionage fiction is
tradecraft secrets, and Quirk doesn’t disappoint.”
—Booklist
“The Night Agent is a compelling, high-stakes thriller, lightning fast,
relentlessly suspenseful, and unsettlingly realistic.”
—Hank Phillippi Ryan, bestselling author of Trust Me
OceanofPDF.com
Also by Matthew Quirk
THE NIGHT AGENT
DEAD MAN SWITCH
COLD BARREL ZERO
THE DIRECTIVE
THE 500
Coming Soon
HOUR OF THE ASSASSIN
OceanofPDF.com
OceanofPDF.com
OceanofPDF.com
Copyright
This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are products of the author’s
imagination or are used fictitiously and are not to be construed as real. Any resemblance to actual
events, locales, organizations, or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.
Excerpt from Hour of the Assassin copyright © 2020 by Rought Draft, Inc.
THE NIGHT AGENT. Copyright © 2019 by Rough Draft, Inc. All rights reserved under
International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have
been granted the nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the text of this e-book onscreen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverseengineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form
or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, without the
express written permission of HarperCollins e-books.
Cover design by Jae Song
Cover photographs © Andrey_Popov/Shutterstock (cracked glass); United States Mint image
First William Morrow premium printing: October 2019
First William Morrow special paperback printing: January 2019
First William Morrow hardcover printing: January 2019
William Morrow and HarperCollins are registered trademarks of HarperCollins Publishers in the
United States of America and other countries.
Digital Edition OCTOBER 2019 ISBN: 978-0-06-287548-8
Version 08012019
Print Edition ISBN: 978-0-06-288916-4
OceanofPDF.com
About the Publisher
Australia
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd.
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia
www.harpercollins.com.au
Canada
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd
Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower
22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor
Toronto, Ontario, M5H 4E3
www.harpercollins.ca
India
HarperCollins India
A 75, Sector 57
Noida
Uttar Pradesh 201 301
www.harpercollins.co.in
New Zealand
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive
Rosedale 0632
Auckland, New Zealand
www.harpercollins.co.nz
United Kingdom
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
1 London Bridge Street
London SE1 9GF, UK
www.harpercollins.co.uk
United States
HarperCollins Publishers Inc.
195 Broadway
New York, NY 10007
www.harpercollins.com
OceanofPDF.com